In a dramatic turn of events, the chief registrar in the office of the chief justice has confirmed that a supposed court order issued to clear embattled Tshwane mayor Murunwa Makwarela’s name is fake. Makwarela, who was evicted from office this week after  insolvency claims, was requested to submit proof of his clearance to the office of the city manager, and on submission of an alleged court order was reinstated on Thursday. However, it has been revealed by chief registrar Tumelo Ledwaba the court has no knowledge of the document. Ledwaba said no rehabilitation order has been issued by the court regarding the parties named in the document. Legal experts have listed errors and inconsistencies in the order submitted by Makwarela. The submission of the letter led to  Makwarela’s reinstatement after he was evicted from office. The  experts pointed out that the letter had grammatical flaws and structural discrepancies and is cited to have come from the “north Court of SA Gauteng division Pretoria” instead of the High Court of SA, Gauteng division, Pretoria. The court name change bill was published in the Government Gazette of 2014 and signed off by chief justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. This was  four years before Makwarela’s alleged rehabilitation. The order is said to have been presided over by “Honourable Mr Justice Moosa” on February 7 2018. However, the court roll on the said date shows no record of a judge Moosa on the day. According to Makwarela, he was rehabilitated in 2018 but his name appeared in the Government Gazette in 2019 and 2022 under legal notices for sequestrated estates. “I know there is a lot of noise around whether the letter is authentic or not but the matter is under investigation and my lawyers are on top of it and they will communicate further,” said Makwarela. In light of the revelation, the chief registrar announced  the office would refer the matter to the office of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks) to institute criminal proceedings. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.