After nearly a year-and-a-half of  legal spat, Mohale Motaung is ready to move  on after his separation from media personality Somizi Mhlongo. This after Somizi withdrew his divorce summons against Mohale on Monday. The Idols SA judge's legal representatives said they obtained expert opinion clarifying the  marriage that revealed “not all customs were complied with”, which meant despite the two stars having had a public wedding celebration at Kibler Park in Johannesburg on  September 28 2019, they  were never married in the eyes of the law. Speaking to TshisaLIVE, Mohale said they  found out  their “marriage” was not recognised during their split. “We realised we don't need to go to court for a divorce because there is no law in  South Africa that governs homosexual relationships under  customary law  legislation. “We only found out when we were separating. We thought customary marriages applied to us as well. We didn't  do our research and it was only when we separated that we learnt the law of customary marriages looks after heterosexual relationships,” he said. For months Mohale has been laughing off claims that he is fighting to obtain half of Somizi's  estate with him being painted as a gold digger. Mohale said he was happy to finally have his name cleared. “The public has been thinking  we were married in  community of property and I'm divorcing because I wanted Somizi's assets and I think my thing was, with my lawyers, was just to clear that.” While he's yet to  meet his lawyer to decide on  the future,  Mohale is happy to close this chapter of his life and move on. “A lot has been said. I've taken time to heal and start moving on. I'm glad that now people will get a better understanding of what was happening. Everybody had their opinions and nobody understood what the law was saying. There are a lot of things  we got to understand and know during my separation from Somizi. “But I think it's important for  us because we are now  at peace of not having to repeat conversations or listen to  people talk about things they don't know ... I'm glad  this happened, people get a better understanding and I think I can also move on with my life.” Somizi  took to his Instagram timeline on Thursday, saying he was happy to see  it resolved . “I am grateful that the matter has been resolved and  I can focus on the future. I hope  we can find a path towards healing and resolution. I respectfully ask that our privacy during this time of transition be respected.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.