Police minister Bheki Cele says police have a “mini programme” in place and are working on a broader plan to deal with  gun violence in Westbury. Cele was speaking during  a visit to Sophiatown police station where he  was briefed about a spate of shootings allegedly involving members of feuding gangs. The  minister and SAPS management, led by acting national commissioner   Lt-Gen Tebello Mosikili, visited the station to “establish the effectiveness of the operational response to the violence” in the area. Gauteng community safety MEC Faith Mazibuko was also present. “The police have put  measures [in place] which we believe will be temporary measures before we come back with a formula that worked in 2018. We'll  have a programme. “But maybe what we didn't do properly in 2018 [is that now] the community invited more departments to be here — the MEC will be briefing the premier, talking to the premier to say  there are several other departments that have been invited by the community who will help us as the police when we come in [to] stabilise the situation.” In 2018,  Cele told residents after protests erupted  a “special  anti-corruption unit is being set up by the national commissioner” to help deal with  gangsterism. On Wednesday he said  police  met  the community who raised their issues and  police had developed a “mini programme”  to start on Thursday. Cele added  they might return to the area soon to “really begin to elucidate and say more about the programme we've just crafted”. “We would love to say this community deserves better than what is happening  and  that peace  that was achieved after 2018, we'll have to find ways of sustaining it,” he said. Mazibuko  said  teams would be deployed  after a request made at a meeting last year. “Various teams are  going to be deployed and, as per that request, that intervention has been done, but it will further be beefed up with more  personnel. [Next week] we will  announce which other teams are coming to assist the community,” she said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.