More than 2,000 University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) students are yet to be allocated to residences. This has sparked fears that some may not be able to meet the March 10 registration deadline amid protest at the Westville campus on Monday. Students  breached security at the Varsity Drive entrance and stormed the quad where they dispersed in pockets, disrupting lectures and forcing students out. UKZN executive director for corporate relations Normah Zondo said the university's  residences  were full to capacity. “Students who still require accommodation are  encouraged to seek accommodation in private residences.” Registrations  had been extended to Friday for  first  year and postgraduate students. She added that despite the disruptive protest  on Monday, university management  were engaging  the student leadership. “We are committed to the consultation process and making every effort to resolve matters amicably,” she said. President of the Student Representative Council (SRC) Lwandile Majozi told TimesLIVE students have a number of complaints which  have not been addressed. “Most of the students are without accommodation. All the private accommodation [establishments] are full and we do not have the financial means.” He said this was their last resort at raising their concerns. They  were unhappy when the university secured a “substandard” building in Addington, near  South Beach. “It is an abandoned building. There are  vagrants who roam the area  freely. It's  not fair because we know there are residences which were suitable for us but they are closed,” said Majozi. He  mentioned a facility on Varsity Drive  near  Howard College in Glenwood. The protest  prompted the cancellation of some  classes as protesters stormed  lecture halls, with some hurling insults at those attending classes. “We want to get back to lectures and study. But we cannot do that if we lack accommodation. The management knows about this and they just do not want to get to the bottom of things,” said Majozi. Police, eThekwini metro police and private security maintained a heavy presence. Majozi said the university was accountable for two SRC members from the Edgewood campus who were arrested two weeks ago. Zondo said the arrest of the duo was  in the hands of law enforcement. “The university cannot interfere with the police investigations and ongoing cases and processes.” She said additional security has been deployed to ensure  the protest  is contained and the academic programme continues uninterrupted. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month. He said this was their last resort at raising their concerns. They  were unhappy when the university secured a “substandard” building in Addington, near  South Beach. “It is an abandoned building. There are  vagrants who roam the area  freely. It's  not fair because we know there are residences which were suitable for us but they are closed,” said Majozi. He  mentioned a facility on Varsity Drive  near  Howard College in Glenwood. The protest  prompted the cancellation of some  classes as protesters stormed  lecture halls, with some hurling insults at those attending classes. “We want to get back to lectures and study. But we cannot do that if we lack accommodation. The management knows about this and they just do not want to get to the bottom of things,” said Majozi. Police, eThekwini metro police and private security maintained a heavy presence. Majozi said the university was accountable for two SRC members from the Edgewood campus who were arrested two weeks ago. Zondo said the arrest of the duo was  in the hands of law enforcement. “The university cannot interfere with the police investigations and ongoing cases and processes.” She said additional security has been deployed to ensure  the protest  is contained and the academic programme continues uninterrupted. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.