The eThekwini municipality  faces  another court challenge  over the ongoing sewage crisis which has seriously affected  businesses, tourism and the economy. The DA in  eThekwini has filed  papers  in the Pietermaritzburg high court to compel the municipality to  produce a court-approved  plan to address the  crisis. Briefing media on Wednesday, DA KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Dean Macpherson  said the party  has been  gathering information  for its  legal  action for months as it  wanted to ensure its case was solid. “We want  to have a structurally sound interdict by the court  for the municipality to comply with  directives  issued by the  KwaZulu-Natal departments of economic development, tourism and environmental affairs  (DEDTEA)  and water and sanitation. These directives date back to 2019 and they have identified the problems in the municipality that need to be dealt with to stop the sewage crises. They have either been partly complied with or have not been dealt with at all.” Macpherson said the quickest way to ensure  the city complies  is to use  national legislation  through government-issued directives that must be adhered to. The DA wants: The DA's  court bid comes after ActionSA’s Durban high court case  regarding the  sewage crisis was postponed on Monday until next month. ActionSA approached the  court to compel the government to attend to the  crisis. ActionSA  was joined by Abantu Batho Congress  as friends of the court in the matter. The eThekwini metro and tourism ministry have not yet responded to the papers filed by ActionSA late last year. Both parties must reply by the end of March, with the matter set to return to court on April 3. Macpherson said:   “When we looked at their papers [ActionSA] we found  their intentions and ours are different. They want to go on a process of obstruction information from the municipality and various departments, which is going to take months and months. In our case, information is already publicly available because the directives are based on that information.” He said they have asked for the  matter to be heard  as soon as possible. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.