Four people have died, likely as a result of the strike by the National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union (Nehawu), health minister Joe Phaahla said on Thursday. The minister, accompanied by Gauteng premier Panyaza Lesufi and health MEC Nomantu Nkomo-Ralehoko, addressed media after site visits to Charlotte Maxeke and Helen Joseph hospitals on Thursday  as part of his tour to healthcare facilities affected by the  strike. He said disciplinary action would be taken against employees violating  the court order obtained on Wednesday. On Wednesday evening, the province obtained a court interdict  in the Johannesburg labour court against  Nehawu to stop its members  obstructing health services to patients. The strike entered its fourth day on Thursday, with Nehawu members protesting at health facilities around the country in demand of a 10% wage hike. Phaahla was briefed about the situation outside Helen Joseph Hospital, where striking  workers on Thursday blocked the main entrance. The minister and his contingent were prevented from entering the premises at the same entrance. “It can't be correct, if that is the main gate [then] no-one has the right, with or without a court order ... to obstruct access to any health facility. So what is happening at that main gate is not correct. “Even before this order, that gathering and obstruction  was illegal. Now the team here has gone the extra step to  get this [order],”  Phaahla said. He told police to  act against those disobeying the court order, saying managers would also take “administrative action” against the culprits. At Charlotte Maxeke, the minister met  operational managers in wards to see the impact the strike has had on services at the hospital. Most detailed the challenges they've faced, particularly on Wednesday, and the impact the strike has had on  wards. Phaahla said a preliminary investigation found four people  have died, likely as a result of the strike. “We still have to do a recon of those numbers,” he added. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.