Striking healthcare workers affiliated to the National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union (Nehawu) were on Tuesday expected to report back to work or face the consequences. Health minister Joe Phaahla on Monday called on striking workers to adhere to a labour court judgment ordering them to immediately end their strike and return to work. “We urge all the workers in the health sector as defined in the court order to report to their workplace tomorrow morning,” said Phaahla. He warned those who failed to comply would face charges of misconduct. While the judgment had ordered the strikers to return to work immediately, the department said it would be lenient, giving workers until Tuesday to return. Phaahla said the department welcomed the labour court judgment. However,   it was regrettable the strike had gone on for as long as it had and caused possible loss of life. “We believe this could have been avoided,” he added. Phaahla hit back at Nehawu leaders, saying they had commissioned their members to strike, knowing there were provisions within the law that barred essential workers from striking. “The leadership was well aware of law prohibiting essential workers of going into disruptive labour action.” He apologised for the disruptions caused in numerous hospitals and clinics, adding that the protest action had caused pain, suffering and humiliation. As the wage-related strike dragged on for more than a week, the health department was forced to call in the assistance of the defence force. Phaahla thanked the doctors and nurses from the military health services, saying the small yet competent contingent was able to provide much needed support in the hardest hit medical centres, particularly in Klerksdorp, Vosloorus and Sebokeng. The military was also deployed to provide security. Phaahla said the situation would be monitored and only when fit to do so would the forces be withdrawn. Meanwhile Nehawu has indicated the strike has not been called off but said members classified as essential service workers would not participate. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.