Veteran radio and TV presenter and author Mark Pilgrim inspired many in his fight against cancer. His death, at the age of 53, was confirmed in a statement from HOT 102.7FM on Sunday. It said he passed away at home with his family on Sunday morning. “DJ Mark Pilgrim lost his battle with cancer this morning. He fought valiantly to the very end. Mark passed peacefully with his fiancée Adrienne at home.” Mark was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer in 2022. He confirmed it returned after  three years in remission. Mark first battled stage three testicular cancer when he was 18. Apart from being a radio jock,  he hosted reality TV shows Big Brother Africa and Big Brother South Africa for its first two seasons. He also published a book in 2015, a memoir called Behind The Baldness. The radio jock said thoughts and prayers from well-wishers kept him going during treatments along with the image of one day walking his daughters down the aisle. Mark had an illustrious radio career which spanned more than two decades, He had a short stint on Wits Campus Radio and joined 5FM in 1995. He later hosted shows on 947 Highveld Stereo and 94.5 KFM. Mark left the airwaves in 2014, but made a comeback to Joburg's HOT 102.7FM. He was hopeful until the end that he would beat cancer and marry the love of his life Adrianne Watkins who had not left his side since the start of his cancer battle. The pair were engaged in January 2023. Tributes have flooded in from those whose lives Mark touched both on and off the air. Managing Director of HOT 102.7FM, Lloyd Madurai, said Mark's death left "an enormous hole in the HOT family, as well as the broader radio industry.” “Old school radio pros like Mark don’t come around very often and the only comfort we can draw is the fact that Mark had an incredible impact on not just South African radio, but the broader community, bravely fighting this awful disease in the public eye, and inspiring and giving hope to people in a similar position.” Radio host Gareth Cliff said: "He fought a tough fight and inspired many in the process, and during his many years on radio,” wrote radio host Gareth Cliff. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela said Mark "gave humanity his best". “I am deeply saddened by the passing of Mark Pilgrim. He gave humanity his best and fought a good fight. Heartfelt condolences to his family, friends, colleagues and fans. May his great soul rest in peace,” she wrote. Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.