Wits University’s student representative council (SRC) has denied claims by the institution that protesters  intimidated students and staff during  protests and said  the suspension of students should be lifted to avoid further conflict. Six SRC members have been suspended this week, including president Aphiwe Mnyamana, for  allegedly flouting the university’s rules by forcing students to leave  lecture halls while attending classes. In a letter from the SRC’s attorneys, Mabuza Attorneys,   most allegations made by the university against the students were said not to be true. Wits claimed through its lawyers that  SRC members forced students out of  classes, blocked busses from operating and one student was found in possession of a petrol canister on campus. “On the morning of  March 2, protesting students forced students out of study rooms and a venue outside the Wits Science Stadium where students were writing a test, and destroyed the test scripts and scattered the scripts around campus. “During the afternoon protesters prevented medical personnel from attending Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital,” said the university’s lawyer, Aslam Moosajee of Edward Nathan Sonnenbergs Inc. However,   the SRC said the claims were untrue as  it was lobbying other students to join the protests. Mabuza Attorneys said the students were reacting to the “despicable and criminal” actions of  private security  deployed on campus. The security officials were  harassing, manhandling and throwing stones at the students, the lawyers claimed. “We deny  the SRC members intimidated or instigated other students to intimidate students, staff, campus shop owners and security, let alone damage university property,  disrupt classes or prevent access to campus. “In fact, the university  needs to explain why it deemed it appropriate to invite bouncers and the police service on campus,” said Mabuza Attorneys. Wits University  said it has video footage which traces the  acts of protesting students, including the times of their alleged attacks on others students and  security and prevention of access to the campus. Some students have  expressed shock and disappointment that the protests were conducted without  consultation with the broader student body, said Moosajee. Instead, they misrepresented the  facts about the university’s efforts to assist with financial issues. Mabuza Attorneys has  asked the university to lift the suspension of  SRC members to ensure the situation does not escalate further. “The suspension will not help the university to resolve the problem. If anything, it will merely deepen the crisis. Needless to say, the suspension of the SRC president has caused a further chasm between management and the student leadership.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.