The  South African National Defence Force (SANDF) and a company linked to it have denied  any knowledge regarding the whereabouts of Ethiopian  Abdella Hussein Abadiga who was allegedly kidnapped from the Mall of Africa in Johannesburg in December. This was confirmed in the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg by adv Billy Moeletsi,  representing the SANDF, Peters Communications Trust (a company linked to the SANDF) and SANDF  Gen Herbert Dilebogo Mashego. Judge Lotter Wepener earlier instructed  three of the seven respondents in the urgent court hearing to disclose Abadiga’s location. The other four respondents are  police minister  Bheki Cele, international relations and co-operation minister Naledi Pandor, President Cyril Ramaphosa and the Mall of Africa. The application was launched by Abadiga’s brother Abdurahim Abadiga  after his disappearance. Abadiga allegedly disappeared from the mall  on December 29, apparently after he had a meeting  there. “Your lordship, the respondents have no knowledge about  Abadiga’s kidnapping nor did they take part in the kidnapping,” Moeletsi told the court. The matter was removed from the court roll to  allow Moeletsi and Anush Nadason,  representing Cele,  to file  responding papers. Abadiga, an alleged Islamic State recruiter and funder, is  alleged to have been snatched from the mall  in December by SANDF special forces. He was placed under US Treasury sanctions in March last year, with Tanzanian Peter Charles Mbaga and South Africans Farhad Hoomer and Siraaj Miller. According to the US government, the men are alleged to have helped terrorist group Islamic State  in Iraq and Syria  gather support and financing for its Africa campaigns. Abdurahim reported him missing to  Midrand police in January. Police are investigating a case of kidnapping after CCTV footage was  obtained from Mall of Africa cameras allegedly showing  men driving vehicles with number plates registered to  Peters Communications Trust leaving the parking lot at about the time of Abadiga's disappearance. The  footage, stills of which are contained in the application and which TimesLIVE Investigations has seen, allegedly show Abadiga’s car, a Toyota Lexus, being escorted out of the parking lot by one of the vehicles belonging to Peters Communications Trust at 4.55pm on December 29. His application claims Abadiga was last seen on CCTV footage at 12.11pm while he was paying for his parking ticket. He claimed this indicated  Abadiga and his bodyguard  intended to leave the mall in his vehicle shortly after that because the ticket  was only valid for a short time. “Yet my brother and Mr Abotese did not leave the mall in the Lexus and it is only seen leaving the parking area  about four hours later, together with the grey Audi [with a number plate showing it belonged to Peters Communications Trust]”. Abdurahim  alleged that after Abadiga paid for his parking ticket and went to the parking lot,  he was abducted and driven away  in a Mercedes-Benz and a BMW  belonging to Peters Communications Trust. According to the application, a Midrand police investigator confirmed the vehicle registrations  belonged to Peters Communications Trust after he reviewed the  footage of the alleged abduction. Through the application, Abdurahim seeks to compel the minister of defence and military veterans Thandi Modise,  Ramaphosa,  Cele,  Pandor, the owners of Mall of Africa, Attacq, Peters Communications Trust and Herbert Mashego, a Peters Communications Trust director, to account for his brother's whereabouts. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.