The public service strike by workers affiliated to the National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union (Nehawu) has been marred by reports of violence. Gauteng health department spokesperson Motalatale Modiba said property was destroyed and a vehicle set alight on Monday at one of the hospitals on the West Rand. Services were affected by the strike action at some facilities across the province, he said. In other instances, ambulances were unable to attend to emergencies because of blocked entrances. “The department apologises for the inconvenience the situation is causing to patients, including to family members who might be trying to reach them. We advise the public to use alternative facilities near them which are not affected,”  said Modiba. Nehawu has embarked on an indefinite strike to demand a 10% salary increment. This is despite the ruling of the labour court interdicting the public service strike action, which was to start on March 6. The court ruling follows an urgent application by the department of public service and administration (DPSA) heard in the Johannesburg labour court on Saturday, after being postponed from March 3. The union has filed an application for leave to appeal the interdict. Modiba said some of the facilities affected were: “Further action will be taken against those responsible for damaging property or endangering the lives of health workers and patients. The department continues to monitor the environment. Law enforcement agencies are on site attending to the situation,” he said. Modiba said despite the strike  and  limited staff, patients already in facilities continued to receive care. The  national department of health has condemned the violence and intimidation directed at health workers, patients and infrastructure. The department's spokesperson, Foster Mohale, said they were working closely with the provincial health authorities and law enforcement agencies to monitor the situation to ensure necessary urgent interventions. “The department respects the right to strike by members of the trade unions as enshrined in the constitution of the country. However, such right should not violate the constitutional rights of others to life and access to healthcare,” said Mohale. “The participation of employees rendering essential services or maintenance services in the strike during working hours will constitute misconduct, and the principle of ‘no work, no pay’ will  be strictly and timeously applied without fear or favour.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.