Musa Mseleku recently jetted off to Johannesburg to deliver a message to his son Mpumelelo Musa Mseleku Jnr after singer Queen Lolly claimed she slept with a member of the Mseleku family. During an interview on controversial podcast Omakhwapheni Queen Lolly, real name Nomfundo Shezi, claimed to have been intimately involved with “Mseleku”, omitting to mention she was referring to Musa Mseleku Jnr. On Wednesday, Mseleku shared a video of him meeting with his son at OR Tambo International Airport where he relayed advice from his four wives, Busisiwe “MaCele” Mseleku, Nokukhanya “Mayeni” Mseleku, Thobile, aka “MaKhumalo”, and Mbali, aka “MaNgwabe”. "Don't do what you are doing. I was sent by your mothers. MaCele said I must tell you that she is warning you to stay away from older woman. MaYeni, your mother said I must tell you that you must love yourself, don't involve yourself in everything. Show self-love, love yourself, protect yourself, and protect the people you are dating," he said. "MaKhumalo is asking why did you not speak up until you ended up in this problem while we are here. We are your family. We are your protectors. "I am saying, as your father, stop that and never do it again. Woman can make you and break you. I want to tell you that we are here as your family and we love you. At the end of the day, you need to look after yourself. You are going to be affected by spirits but you're also going to be affected by illnesses that are not good. The Mselekus' legal team told TshisaLIVE that  Musa Mseleku Snr and Mpumelelo Musa Mseleku Jnr issued a “cease and desist” letter to Shezi after her comments “Our offices addressed a cease and desist letter to Nomfundo Shezi and [podcast host] Musa Khawula to remove the defamatory and illegal social media posts regarding our clients. "Should Shezi and Khawula persist with their defamatory and illegal conduct, our client will have no choice but to approach the high court, seeking urgent relief against them. We are further instructed that our client will not engage with the media in this respect as it is a personal matter and will be dealt with between the parties.”