Spotlight is our entertainment bite-sized snapshot featuring new entertainment releases in SA, exclusive film trailers and much more. New episodes are out every Thursday on Sunday Times Lifestyle, Sowetan Entertainment and on YouTube, plus you can follow Spotlight on Facebook. This week’s episode of Spotlight features big-screen movie releases, a true crime local doccie to stream, and a deep dive into a top Oscar contender. Michael B Jordan (Creed I and II, Black Panther) makes his directorial debut with the third instalment of the thrilling Creed franchise, out in cinemas this week. Creed III features heavyweight boxer Adonis Creed’s confrontation with his past, when a childhood friend resurfaces to push him back into the ring. Antagonist Damian Anderson is played by rising star Jonathan Majors (Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania, Devotion). The ever-popular true crime genre has a new local offering, Stella Murders, streaming on Showmax from March 17. Produced and directed by David Enright and IdeaCandy, the creators of the breakout hit series Devilsdorp, the docuseries investigates the chilling 2018 deaths of best friends Sharnelle Hough and Marna Engelbrecht, whose bodies were found at their Stella High School hostel in the North West. Initially ruled as suicides, it soon turned into a murder investigation that shattered the small town. This year’s Academy Awards are presented in less than two weeks, and we take a closer look at one of the top contenders, the critically acclaimed Tár. Renowned conductor Lydia Tár is portrayed by Cate Blanchett, with director Todd Field (Little Children, In the Bedroom) at the wheel, taking audiences on an astonishing journey of musical genius, intertwined with Lydia’s psychological and physical struggles. Spotlight looks ahead at two upcoming movies: the Liam Neeson film Marlowe, a suspenseful detective thriller set in 1939 Los Angeles, and What’s Love Got to Do with It, a delightful British romcom about arranged marriages starring Emma Thompson, Lily James and Shazad Latif, from director Shekhar Kapur (Bandit Queen, Elizabeth). For full interviews, breaking news, trailers and clips, visit our Spotlight Facebook page. See you at the movies! Presenter Collette Prince is styled and dressed by Claris by Gerrit Pienaar. Facebook @Claris by Gerrit Pienaar/ Instagram: gerritpienaardesigns. This week Spotlight is giving away movie merchandise hampers to Creed franchise fans. To enter, visit the Spotlight South Africa Facebook page. Terms and conditions apply. Winners will be drawn randomly and notified by SMS after the competition has closed.  Entrants’ personal details will not be retained for marketing purposes. Winners have to provide proof of age (ID/driver’s licence) and cover their own travel and accommodation expenses. By entering participants agree to have their names published on TimesLIVE, SowetanLIVE and Spotlight South Africa on Facebook. Employees of Arena Holdings and their family members are not eligible to enter.