Mamelodi Sundowns coach Rulani Mokwena put their comprehensive 5-2 thrashing of Al Ahly down to collective effort but there was special mention of inspirational captain Themba Zwane. Zwane, back in the team after missing last weekend's DStv Premiership draw with Stellenbosch FC, gave a virtuoso performance as the Brazilians secured a place in the Champions League knockout stages with two group matches to spare. Zwane scored one of the five goals in the Caf Champions League Group B fixture at Loftus and gave an immense all-round performance as Sundowns ensured the Egyptian giants remained winless in South Africa. Downs top the group with 10 points and have all but qualified for the quarterfinals with two games to go. Sudan's Al-Hilal  are second on nine points. Al Ahly (four points) must beat Cotonsport of Cameroon and Al-Hilal and hope other results go their way to have any chance of progression. “I steal so many ideas, so allow me to steal your [the media's] words like 'gorgeous' and 'beautiful',” Mokwena said when asked to describe Zwane’s performance. “But I always say this is about the entire team, it is not about individuals but a collective and Themba happens to be part of a very good group of honest football players. “They make mistakes because they are honest. Congratulations to the entire team and very proud of the collective effort.” Mokwena reminded his players Sundowns' job in reaching their target of adding to their 2016 title is far from done. “A wise man once said in bad moments stay calm and in good moments stay even calmer. The game belongs to the players and they deserve all the praise. I will be the first to quickly remind them there is still a long way to go. “One swallow doesn’t make a summer, this result doesn’t deliver any trophy. We are business-minded people, we want to win trophies and we are here to win trophies. That is what happens at big clubs and we are judged by that. “We haven’t done anything miraculous or anything out of the ordinary. It is the quality of the football players — any result is possible when you have a quality group of players.” For Al Ahly to progress, Sundowns have to do the Egyptians a favour by taking points from Coton Sport and Al-Hilal, and Mokwena said the Brazilians will do their best, as usual. “Believe me, we are honest and we will do the best we can to win football matches. It is important we continue to win matches and if my colleague [Al Ahly coach Marcel Koller] thinks we will not, he can be guaranteed 100% that we will give everything to win because we play to win.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.