ANC deputy president Paul Mashatile says he is unfazed by alleged attempts to block his  move to the east wing of the Union Buildings. Rumours  abound that some in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s inner circle are behind the delay in the cabinet reshuffle because they do not want Mashatile to replace David Mabuza as the country’s deputy president. Mabuza  forced Ramaphosa’s hand by announcing his resignation during his brother’s funeral last month and later resigning as an  MP. Mashatile was meant to have been installed as deputy president after his swearing in before the state of the nation address at the beginning of February, but the process has been marred by countless delays. “I remain focused,” Mashatile told TimesLIVE on Wednesday evening when asked about the alleged machinations against him. South Africa is without a deputy president after Mabuza  quit this week, but Mashatile has still not been appointed. Mashatile's supporters say a recent criminal case opened against him by a North West ANC member  is one of the many attempts to block his appointment. On Wednesday Mashatile told TimesLIVE he was aware of a case purportedly  opened. “Yes, I saw something to that effect, but I said the ANC must deal with it.” The case, opened by  one Sello Molefe,  alleges Mashatile committed  fraud and perjury  by appointing deceased people to the ANC North West interim provincial committee (IPC) during his tenure as  acting secretary-general. Molefe  alleges Mashatile lied in a case that sought to nullify the ninth provincial conference by telling the court  the party’s national executive committee (NEC) had taken a decision to reappoint the IPC that organised the conference. That IPC, however, included three members who were no longer alive: Maitu Kgaile, Sophie Maine and OJ Tselapedi. Mashatile also  allegedly appointed Supra Mahumapelo, who had resigned as an IPC member and was deployed to the National Assembly,  and former premier Job Mokgoro who had  resigned. In an affidavit signed on Tuesday, Molefe said: “Not only did the terms of the deceased IPC members end on  April 29 2020 while they were still alive, their ANC membership lapsed as at the respective dates of their passing. Yet  Mashatile alleged in the answering affidavit  the ANC NEC purportedly resolved on  July 26 - 29 2022 to re-appoint these deceased ANC members into the IPC notwithstanding the fact that they were  [dead]. “The terms of office of Mahumapelo and Mokgoro ended when they resigned on September 30 2019 and August 26 2021 respectively. Mahumapelo and Mokgoro could therefore not be re-appointed as IPC members by virtue of their resignations.” Molefe accuses Mashatile of “copying and pasting” minutes from an NEC meeting that took place three years earlier when he deposed his affidavit to the court on the decision to reappoint the IPC. “Mashatile was the acting secretary-general of the organisation on July 26-29 2022 and was aware when he deposed to the answering affidavit on August 24 2022 that there was never such a meeting held during that period and there was never any resolution taken by the ANC NEC during the period in question,” Molefe alleged. He claimed Mashatile admitted and apologised to the court for  “fraud” and said he did not know how the error was made. “Mashatile might not know who created the fraudulent NEC resolution purportedly taken at a meeting held on July 26-29 2022. However, what I am certain of is that  Mashatile was the SG of the ANC at the time and  he deposed to the answering affidavit under oath in terms whereof he attached the fraudulent resolution and committed perjury confirming authenticity of the fraudulent resolution while he was fully aware that the resolution was never taken,” said Molefe. He said Mashatile committed a criminal offence of fraud and forgery. The ANC said Mashatile was acting on behalf of the ANC. “According to our records, all decisions pertaining to the erstwhile interim provincial committee and the subsequent election of the provincial executive committee were handled in accordance with ANC guidelines. The ANC will respond as and when required to do so by relevant authorities,”  national spokesperson Mahlengi Bhengu-Motsiri said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.