The Lions returned to winning form with a hard-fought 30-25 EPCR Challenge Cup win over the Dragons at the Centre for Sporting Excellence in Ystrad Mynach on Sunday. The result saw the Johannesburg team book a last 16 spot. The match, originally scheduled to be played at Rodney Parade in Newport, was moved at the 25th hour on account of a frozen field and played on an artificial turf. The late change didn’t deter the visitors, who, rather than the Dragons, were the ones who came out breathing fire. The Lions, who remarkably hadn’t won a match in five weeks, came into the game in fourth place in Pool B with one win, a draw and a loss. Fresh from their 17-7 loss to Stade Francais last weekend in Paris, Ivan van Rooyen’s charges restored some lost pride with a nerve-racking victory. The Lions dominated the first 40 minutes but it was the Dragons who scored the opening try through flyhalf Will Reed. The home side worked the ball well through the hands in the Lions’ red zone and duly came away with the reward. In the reverse fixture, the sides played out to a draw and the Lions came close to snatching defeat from the jaws of victory this time. Flyhalf Jordan Hendrikse, who returned from injury, slotted two early penalties before the Lions also got into the try-scoring act with swift back-to-back five-pointers. Impressive young wing Quan Horn rounded off a well-worked team move, with Hendrikse adding the extras. From the next kickoff, JP Smith fed flyer Edwill van Merwe with a perfectly-timed pass and the speedster exposed space on the blind side to score. The younger brother of Springbok scrumhalf Jaden Hendrikse was named man of the match with 20 points this time and can be pleased with his return. The Lions were full value for their 27-5 lead at the break. However, if ever a match was a tale of two halves it was this one, as the home side won the second 40 minutes 25-3. The Dragons displayed more verve and vigour and registered two well-worked tries in quick succession. Jordan Williams’ effort, where he scythed through the Lions’ defence and dotted down, was the most eye-catching score and the home side grew in stature. Three yellow cards in 15 minutes against Stade Francais last week killed off the Lions and when Emile van Heerden was yellow-carded after four team warnings the visitors' discipline threatened to unravel again. New Welsh wing sensation Rio Dyer went over for the Dragons’ fourth try to closed the gap to eight points. Despite a nervy final quarter against a fiery Dragons, which saw JJ Hanrahan reduce the deficit to five points, the Lions held onto their lead and booked a round of 16 home fixture against Racing 92. Scorers Lions 30 (27) — Tries: Quan Horn, Edwill van der Merwe. Conversion: Jordan Hendrikse (1). Penalties: Hendrikse (6) Scarlets 25 (5) — Tries: Will Reed, Aki Seiuli, Jordan Williams, Rio Dyer. Conversion: Will Reed (1). Penalties: JJ Hanrahan (1) Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.