Outspoken Chippa United coach Morgan Mammila has suggested  Bafana Bafana  adopt the Mamelodi Sundowns model if the bungling  national team is to be revived. Bafana have  become the laughing stock of the continent after many years of underachievement and Mammila says  Safa president Danny Jordaan must ask Caf president Patrice Motsepe how they built Sundowns  to be a powerful force. Over the past few years where they have  dominated on the domestic scene with five successive league titles, Sundowns have flexed their powerful financial muscle to sign players they want, which  Bafana can’t do. “I am going to send you to the  Safa president [Jordaan] and Caf president  Patrice Motsepe,” Mammila told media. “Sundowns is the most viewed football team in this country because of the football they play. If we take the  system  Sundowns play to Bafana Bafana, are we not bringing back the Bafana  we all love? “When Sundowns play, all of you [media] come here [Loftus], but let other teams  play elsewhere you don’t go because you don’t see what you want to see. Here at Sundowns you see what you want to see.” Mammila  suggested plans  be made to recruit former Sundowns and Al Ahly coach Pitso Mosimane as he  laid the foundation at Chloorkop. “The  Safa president must  ask Motsepe, 'how did you get  Sundowns to where it is now?', it’s very simple. We know the person who started this system at Sundowns was coach Pitso  and [now Sundowns coach] Rulani [Mokwena] was there. “Why can’t [we] take these two guys to help the national team so that every day all of you,  will go  to watch Bafana? If there is a [Sundowns] match this weekend you will be back here at Loftus to watch. “I am sending you  to Patrice Motsepe because he is a man who likes this country. When there were floods in  KwaZulu-Natal  he pumped money there. Don’t you think he will be proud if South Africa can be in a World Cup and reach the top four? “You  must go to  Jordaan and say Morgan is asking, 'don’t you like how Sundowns play?' It pains us, when was the last time a foreign coach won the league in this country? Who is topping the league in this country? Is it a foreigner or a South African? “At the World Cup there was only one 71-year-old coach,  Louis van Gaal. Did he reach the top four? The answer is no. Who reached the final? It was a 54-year-old [Didier Deschamps] coach and a 44-year-old [Lionel Scaloni] coach and they are coaching their own countries.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.