A mother has described how she  found her child  dead in Salvokop, Pretoria, after a  car ploughed into  a group of people on Saturday. Hawkers were selling chickens on a street corner in the small community  when they  spotted a  BMW  that was allegedly speeding. Anna Sithole, 29, who sells live chickens, said she was with her  four-year-old daughter Privilege and her eight-month-old baby. She told  TimesLIVE she warned her fellow hawkers  about the car which had allegedly  been speeding around Salvokop since Friday. Seeing the car, Sithole  said she stood up with her baby in her arms, but was unaware that Privilege was standing  behind her. “I was  looking at that car. I  moved a bit to the right and the car  went past me and hit my child,” she said. Sithole said she  was screaming  and when she  spotted the driver she  hit him. “I grabbed him and I beat this guy. He kept saying ‘leave me, leave me’. I left him and I looked for my child while crying.” Sithole  found her  daughter  face down  under a tree. The car driver had fled. Privilege and two other children — twin girls — were killed. At least eight other people were injured. Tshwane emergency services said they arrived at the scene to find  injured people scattered around  and the car under a partially collapsed tree. “Two female patients, of which one is nine months pregnant, were transported to Steve Biko Academic Hospital with moderate to serious injuries. Four other female patients were also transported to hospital with minor to moderate injuries,” spokesperson Charles Mabaso said. One of the hospitalised women is the mother of the  dead twins. She was discharged from hospital on Monday. A wooden cross has been  attached to the  tree trunk where Privilege and the other two children died. The words “rest in peace” were etched on the cross. Police are searching for the driver who is still on the run, said spokesperson Lt-Col Mavela Masondo. “Police have opened a case of culpable homicide, reckless and negligent driving  and defeating the ends of justice.” It is alleged that  the driver  was  not the owner of the vehicle. According to community leader Frans Molokomme, it is believed to be his brother’s car. “The affected families  are poor and  make a living by selling [goods] in the streets. This  is heartbreaking and has left the community in pain and anger because no one is held responsible” he said. Sithole  said her daughter was  intelligent and helpful. Their landlord, Margory Sefolo,  a pensioner, said she had known Privilege since she was a baby. “She loved helping me. She would go to the shops for me to get painkillers or  offer to help me wash dishes and clean. I don’t like to think about what happened,”  she said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.