Business Unity South Africa president Bonang Mohale joins  Eusebius McKaiser to discuss his recent opinion piece in which he argued  the ANC cannot fix itself. Instead, he believes business is South Africa’s last hope. Join the discussion: The discussion starts  with an analysis of the ANC’s  55th national elective conference. McKaiser invites Mohale to comment on the new top seven  leadership  and  the  party’s highest decision-making structure, the national executive committee. Mohale argues  that the inefficient manner in which the  conference was run, and the strategic error of allocating most of the time to leadership elections rather than  a deep examination of ideas and policies, is evidence  that the ANC  is unable to fix itself. He expands  on this diagnosis in the conversation with podcast host, TimesLIVE contributor and analyst McKaiser. Mohale concedes  many ANC policy resolutions have a social justice character. Unfortunately,  lack of good governance, implementation and effective political leadership result in the  dire socio-economic data we currently have, he says. This makes the country susceptible  to  unrest, as happened in July 2021. McKaiser  tests  Mohale’s claim that business can fill  many of the gaps left by the captured state. He  suggests  to Mohale that  state capture is   public servants and politicians on  one hand, and business on the other, preying on the public.  Mohale concedes  this  but tries to make the case for why business may  do better. Most of the latter part of the  episode is an exchange  about whether  business can be trusted with a social agenda that goes beyond  maximising shareholder value. Whether  Mohale’s critique of the ANC and his  qualified defence of business is compelling is for listeners of  Eusebius on TimesLIVE to decide for themselves. To listen to previous episodes, go here. Subscribe for future episodes: iono.fm, Spotify, Google Play, Apple Podcasts, Player.fm, Pocket Cast Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.