Imagine a juicy steak cooked over the coals which looks and tastes  like beef except this cut has been developed in a lab. The concept  has been more than two decades in the making and the race is on to get this cell-based cultured meat to consumers around the globe. How it is done? A  sample of cells is taken from a living animal, without harming it, which is then grown in a laboratory and when fully formed is shaped into cuts of meat. The result? Meat production without farming or the slaughter of animals — and the positive effect this will have on the environment. A no-brainer. As more people are discovering the virtues of a plant-based lifestyle, which may mean  cutting out animal protein  or cutting back on meat and including more plant-based foods, retailers have shifted  the way they  label food products to use the term plant-based, which is more inclusive and consumer friendly. TikTok, the social media platform that is taking the world by storm, allows followers to create, share and discover through short videos. It has become the cooking and recipe hub with more than 1-billion followers. Remember how how cooks across the globe went crazy, and still do, over that easy peasy baked pasta, feta and tomato recipe that first appeared on TikTok? South Africans, along with everyone else, have become obsessed with air fryers and it’s  no surprise that it remains one of the country’s top-selling kitchen appliances. Why? Because it  cooks in less time than a conventional oven — great when cooking around load-shedding — and produces excellent results. A drawback has been the size and design which means only one item can be cooked at a time. Now there’s  a new version  which  comes with a dual cooking compartments with separate controls. Think roast chicken and roast potatoes or fish and chips — the possibilities are endless. Available in different sizes, shapes and colours, mushrooms are packed with healthful properties such as antioxidants and  B vitamins. They are affordable, low in kilojoules and  versatile. An excellent protein replacement, they soak up flavours like a sponge and deliver big on taste. Even Jamie Oliver believes in them. His latest offering on Instagram, #jamieoliver, is a delectable mushroom shawarma. Yum. In an increasingly stressful world we’ve come to recognise the value of cannabidiol (CBD),  extracted from the cannabis plant, which  when added to foods and supplements  offers a double benefit. After removing  tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) which causes users to get high,  CBD  is used in  sweets and confectionery, baked goods, oils, supplements and drinks. Move over charcuterie boards, canned fish seacuterie is the flavour of the moment. Once looked down on as inferior  — think sardines, mackerel, mussels, anchovies, tuna and salmon — canned fish  is the new hero of al fresco eating. Giving up alcohol doesn’t mean you can’t drink, as Gen Z has shown us,  giving rise to a dizzying array of nonalcoholic beverages and mocktails to put a  new spin on life. Cheers! Lunch boxes look very different to days of yore. Chocolate bars have given way to fresh fruit, cold drinks are being replaced with water and now seaweed snacks are filling the gaps. There is a range of seaweed-based snacks  to choose from, so goodbye potato crisps and welcome this goodness-laden food from the sea. Humble greens are the heroes of many a dish. Gone are the days of steak and chips; now it’s roasted cauliflower or cabbage pizza creating a stir on a plate. Beyond the versatile brinjal, try new flavours such as the celeriac bulb. It may not be the best looking on the shelf but add a little heat, olive oil and other flavourings, as celebrity chef Yotam Ottolenghi does with his  have new-found fav, and you, too, can create a feast. And guess what? Vegetables come at a fraction of the price of animal protein, thus making an excellent alternative to dwindling food budgets.