Three KwaZulu-Natal municipalities will contribute about R8m  to host about a million Nazareth Baptist Church devotees  on a three-day  pilgrimage to the  Khenana and Nhlangakazi holy mountains. The pilgrimage, which  started on Monday and  runs until January 23, will see  devotees journey from Durban up two mountains in Ndwedwe  in the iLembe district municipality. At a joint briefing  in Durban  on Tuesday, eThekwini  metro acting mayor Nkosenhle Madlala, Ndwedwe local municipality mayor Simon Mfeka and iLembe district mayor Thobani Shandu outlined plans  for the religious gathering. Mfeka said the schedule for the four participating groups  is: Traditionally, all devotees of the  church observed the pilgrimage together, but due to infighting which arose after the death of Vimbheni Thingolwenkosazane Shembe, the Mduduzi “Nyazilwezulu” Shembe-aligned eBuhleni group will  go to the  Khenana holy mountain. The other three groups, which are aligned to Phinda Shembe — who assumed  leadership of the church after the death of Vela Shembe in 2017 — will  go to the Nhlangakazi holy mountain. Vela won the court battle over Mduduzi in 2016, though other members of the church have ignored that court ruling and still regard Mduduzi as the leader. Madlala said eThekwini has  supported the church over the years, mainly with  health and safety protocols and  “assessments of the state of infrastructure on the ground”. This year, Madlala said the city will assist with four ambulances, five static water tanks, 10 waters tankers, 20,000  plastic waste bags, 100 waste collectors, 200 mobile ablution facilities, eight waste skips  placed along the route and the deployment of metro police for traffic control. The provincial government will provide mobile clinics. In addition to the R4m  it contributed to sanitation services and waste removal during last year’s pilgrimage, Madlala said eThekwini will spend  R5.8m  this year  on basic refurbishment costs. Shandu said the  iLembe district municipality  will contribute R1.4m  and provide water and sanitation facilities  at the  mountains. Four water tankers were  sent on Monday and another four would be ready to be deployed “when the need arises”. Mfeka said the municipality  would contribute R1.5m  and provide water at both mountains, road maintenance and fire and disaster units. He said it was important to ensure the pilgrimage did not affect citizens who did not take part in it by obstructing traffic. Madlala said these interventions were necessitated by public health considerations, given the large number of people that attend the  pilgrimage. “In addition to  hygiene, the Nazareth Baptist Church is the largest congregation in the Southern Hemisphere with a membership of  more than  five-million. The pilgrimage also draws thousands of devotees from all corners of the country to the city which gives us a great platform to promote the city as a preferred destination for tourism and investment.” He added that all three municipalities had to increase funding this year because of the damage to infrastructure  in last year’s April floods. Mfeka added: “This is the only place where such a pilgrimage occurs. It’s the only pilgrimage here that brings together more than a million people over one month. The pilgrimage is significant religiously, economically and  for tourism.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.