Gift of the Givers will hand over the upgraded Port Natal  School in Umbilo on Tuesday. This school is one of many  to benefit from the organisation’s R40m infrastructure upgrade of schools  affected by the floods in KwaZulu-Natal in April last year. The organisation said the principal and management agreed to convert the high school section of the 90-year-old Afrikaans-medium school into a dual-medium institution  after the Gift of the Givers upgrade. The school said on its website that in 2017 its primary section (grade 1-7) was restructured to allow English-medium classes. Gift of the Givers said the construction team followed the KwaZulu-Natal Amafa and Research Institute's guidelines as the school is a heritage site. Amafa is the provincial heritage resources authority. The organisation’s  upgrade project has seen its teams repairing floors, roofs, ceilings, windows, doors, toilets, classrooms,  buildings, stormwater drains, boundary walls, electrical and water networks. It said many schools were in a bad state of repair, unrelated to the floods, but due to  lack of maintenance over the years. The Gift of the Givers will also hand over Insizwakazi Primary School in Pinetown at 1pm on Tuesday. The organisation handed over Tyburn Primary School in Chatsworth and Mason Lincoln Special School in Umlazi on Monday. “Our children  require upgraded and modernised facilities to match the commitment, compassion and care of highly dedicated teachers who are  parents and educators  of children who come from backgrounds with a myriad of social issues. “Upgraded schools are a symbol of hope that encourage a positive mindset in learners, educators and parents, serving as a motivation for substantially improved outcomes. Funding for upgrades nationally will  be welcomed,” the organisation said. It said the infrastructure upgrade programme is augmented by drilling of boreholes, distribution of school furniture, uniforms, stationery, sporting equipment, providing counselling services and bulk feeding. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.