KwaZulu-Natal authorities are investigating an illegal dumping incident after a video showing two people allegedly disposing of waste into a stormwater drain went viral. It is unclear when the video was taken but it is believed to have been  recorded  on the Higginson Highway in Durban. It shows a bakkie with a trailer  containing portable toilets parked on the side of a road  next to a stormwater drain. A man filming a 70-second video approaches the vehicle, where two people can be seen closing the trailer after they allegedly deposited some substance into the stormwater drain. “As you can see, the sewage has gone straight down the stormwater drain and these two individuals here dumped this down the drain. You're turning away because you know this is wrong. This goes straight into our rivers and the oceans aren't good to swim in because of people like you,” the man is heard telling the people. Calls to the company, listed on the portable toilets, were unanswered. KwaZulu-Natal MEC for economic development, tourism &  environmental affairs  Siboniso Duma  said the matter was reported to the department by  eThekwini municipal officials. “The environmental management inspectors (Green Scorpions) of this department and eThekwini municipality are investigating. The municipality has a duty to ensure compliance with  municipal bylaws, and the department has a duty to ensure compliance with the constitution and National Environment Management Act,” said Duma. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said an investigation was under way. “The city has been made aware of the video where two individuals were caught red-handed disposing of sewage in our stormwater drainage system. We condemn this unlawful conduct with the contempt it deserves. The matter is being investigated internally,” he said. He said guided by  bylaws, the city will  communicate its next course of action. He called on  members of the public to refrain from this  behaviour because it has a negative impact on fresh and sea water. Mayisela also urged communities to report incidents of this nature. “If we are not vigilant, this is going to wipe out our tourism sector. Beaches are among the major drawcards for visitors. It also derails our programme of ridding our water resources of raw sewage, a situation compounded by two waves of floods that hit the city at the beginning of last year.” Mayisela said they are yet to establish if any of the offenders is a city employee. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.