The proposal to have permanent stage 2 load-shedding for two years is unattractive. This is according to mineral resources &  energy minister Gwede Mantashe, who  told an energy dialogue hosted by the ANC on Thursday that the focus should rather be on  ending load-shedding. “I heard an announcement of load-shedding level 2 being permanent for two to three years. That is not attractive. We must have  resolve to  eliminate load-shedding,” said Mantashe. His comments come after  Eskom board chair Mpho Makwana announced on Sunday that the power utility was exploring placing the country at permanent stages 2 and  3 for two years. Makwana said this would create a level of predictability while also giving Eskom time to  fix and service its infrastructure. “The recovery plan requires that power stations are given head room to execute. We want to ensure we create some predictability by implementing some level of permanence between stages 2 and 3 load-shedding for the next two years to give sufficient space for maintenance while giving the country a level of consistency to plan livelihoods better,” said Makwana. Though Mantashe does not agree, this suggestion  received support from the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal at its provincial executive committee (PEC) at  the weekend. The party’s provincial secretary in KZN Bheki Mtolo said President Cyril Ramaphosa, who spent Monday with the PEC, had been honest about the challenges facing Eskom, saying they cannot be resolved immediately. He  hailed Ramaphosa as an “ethical” man who is honest on the true state of Eskom’s problems. “I think the fault of Ramaphosa is he’s an honest, ethical man with  integrity. He speaks the truth. He told us  that the challenges of Eskom are not going to be solved in three months,” Mtolo said. “That’s why South Africans can be ready if the president one day says  let’s keep the country on stage 2 for two full years  so  we take  our fleet, buy  materials, revamp our fleet, then when we come back we end load-shedding forever. Then South Africans will know that  we’ve got a government that’s got clarity of thought.” Mantashe disagreed, saying this proposal is not desirable. He said Eskom's immediate focus should be on: TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.