The Nigerian consulate in Johannesburg has condemned City Power and metro police for what  it called an "invasion". This week, City Power embarked on a three-day revenue collection effort in Region E of  Johannesburg to recover at least R36m of R363m owed to the Alexandra Service Delivery Centre (SDC). On Wednesday, the revenue collection blitz  went to the offices of the Nigerian consulate  in Illovo, where the  electricity was disconnected for an alleged debt  of more than R400,000. It is also alleged that consulate officials shut the entrance and refused  City Power access. However, City Power was  able to disconnect the electricity. “The Consulate General of Nigeria in Johannesburg hereby condemns the invasion of its premises on Wednesday,  January 18  by officials of Johannesburg city council purportedly on a debt recovery exercise,” said the consultate. “The invasion squad, which comprised officials of Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department  and City Power as well as members of the press, arrived at the consulate without  notice or appointment and disrupted  consular services.” The action of the officials, no matter the justification, was in  violation of  international treaties and conventions, especially the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations,  which guarantees the inviolability of consular premises, the consulate said. It had conveyed its government's displeasure through diplomatic channels to the South African government with a demand for an  investigation  into “the illegal violation of the premises of the consulate general and appropriate remedial measures taken to forestall recurrence”. Spokesperson for the department of international relations and co-operation Clayson Monyela confirmed on Twitter  the matter is being handled through diplomatic channels. The consulate  apologised to  the public for the disruption to services on the day and said normal consular services have been restored. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.