Patriotic Alliance leader Gayton McKenzie has cleared the air on Ditsobotla mayor Elizabeth Lethoko resigning less than 24 hours after being elected. Lethoko tendered her resignation to  newly elected speaker Fikile Jakeni. In a statement, the party said it fully supported Lethoko’s decision. Responding to questions online, McKenzie said the decision was based on the ANC wanting to appoint a municipal manager without the council seeing the applicant's CV. “The leader of the ANC in the province wants us to appoint a municipal manager [without] us having sight of his CV. This matter wasn’t even on the council agenda.  Neither the mayor nor the coalition partners were briefed about this obviously corrupt stance. We will not walk into an oncoming train,” said McKenzie. Speaking to Jacaranda FM, Patriotic Alliance deputy leader Kenny Kunene said the party could not turn a blind eye to corruption and illegal practices. “Our position is that even if you vote for our candidate to be the mayor, we can’t turn a blind eye when you do illegal practices. When you are corrupt, we cannot turn a blind eye [and] would rather resign.  The power that we want to service our people should not come at the cost of good governance,” said Kunene. He said the ANC tried to sneak  onto the agenda the  appointment of the municipal manager. “That item was not on the agenda and that is not how the council works. None of the coalition partners, including the mayor, had  seen the CV of this municipal manager. “None of the coalition partners  was consulted about  the matter being placed  on the agenda because the appointment of  a municipal manager must go through council voting. “Right at the beginning of the coalition, the ANC wanted  to bypass council regulations. They wanted to get items illegally onto the agenda so we said we  couldn't be part of a coalition where council regulations and processes are  bypassed illegally.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.