The last leg of An intimate night with Gregory Porter presented by Liberty at the Teatro in Montecasino on Saturday night left the fired-up audience chanting “we want more”. There have been no bad reviews for Porter's concert since he landed in Mzansi and after being one of the souls blessed to be able to attend his concert, I understand why. Porter's concert is certainly the perfect way to start the year, and an even better way to end some chapters, but first we feed the soul. I first heard Gregory Porter in the protest song 1960 what — but the house version — and it was then I searched for this man who stood out from the beat and was instantly drawn to his honest and authentic storytelling that I could relate to. This tour was Gregory's first solo concert in South Africa and he came to Mzansi to leave his heart and spirit on the stage. But before we went on this journey as the audience with Gregory and his band, musician Msaki opened for the musician. Reminding the crowd once more why she is a rare gift. Msaki was the perfect fit to open for Porter and we can only hope she heals fully so she can come back to nurturing us through her music. The crowd seemed to want to absorb every note she sang and treasure it thanks to her recent announcement that she is temporarily leaving the entertainment space for her peace of mind. The songstress sang different songs from her catalogue but it was when she performed Khusela and Fetch Your Life that she was visibly emotional — as was the crowd — that subsequently became her backup singers. When Gregory and his band came on stage the room was instantly electrified and cellphones were out capturing the moment. Porter sang his songs which were layered perfectly and in just the right order. He narrated some of the stories behind his soulful sounds and let the audience into his life with intimate stories that gave birth to some of his greatest songs. From the harmonies to the pitch, everything was perfect. Made even better by the brilliantly talented band that are so spiritually in sync with Porter. Saxophonist Tivon Pennicott,  pianist Chip Crawford, Ondrej Pivec on organ, Jamahl Nichols on bass and drummer Emanuel Harrold. When he sang the last song, the atmosphere became emotional, not only because everyone dreaded the goodbye but because the lights were dimmed and instruments silent as the crowd all sang There will be no love that's dying here, as if we were all reaching for that glimmer of hope within us as our voices filled the room. The power of all of us singing together and the meaning of the lyrics were the perfect end to a perfect night with Gregory Porter. Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.