I’m still baffled that BMW South Africa knowingly chose to use the words “our ancestors” as a cheap advertising stunt. The brand launched a locally produced campaign where they showcase young people being bold and the message in the video is that they are redefining themselves as the ones who dare. The advert bears a tagline with the black pride phrase: “I am my ancestors' wildest dream.” But there is a line through the word ancestors. What BMW did by cancelling  “ancestors” is the kind of caricatured representation of black people in the advertising sector and society at large that warrants calling out. The expression by Brandan Odums, a visual artist and activist from America is a powerful statement of black identity and pride. Odums opines that “I am because they were, I am dancing to their tune but this time, we are winning” which speaks to the power of identity, ubuntu, and heritage. For most indigenous Africans, their connection to ancestry and heritage is intertwined with personal and community identity. When most black people buy cars- luxury or not- they announce it with pride to their ancestors to protect them and drive with them on this journey of access. But most importantly, they are the ones who probably attained something that is of generational aspiration. This phrase is synonymous with young blacks who have made breakthroughs in their lives and has been popularised in social spaces as almost a movement that recognises the past contributions, prayers, and wishes of our forebears as Africans. In 1991 the brand commissioned the globally acclaimed Ndebele visual artist Dr Esther Mahlangu to paint one of their cars which became an exhibition marvel. A testament to the self-brand congruence and loyalty that the black market has for their cars. It was celebrating an art form and gift that Mahlangu herself attributes to her ancestors, particularly her mother. Today BMW is   demeaning the same ancestors and negating their role in the realisation of young people’s dreams. While we continue to strive to build a society that is inclusive of diversity and respectful of the rights and values of others, we are met with trivial and cleverly worded adverts that at face value appear innocent but are an attack on our very being as Africans. In an analysis of the representation of black people in advertising, Elyssa Quinn Smith said advertising images can reflect or reinforce societal norms and therefore also become agents of socialisation. She said the imaging conveys important beliefs and reveals those who create advertising images as incredibly powerful. Not every black person believes in ancestors but even from a non-spiritual perspective, the messaging is an insult. The principle recognises that no one person can make it on their own and the importance of parental and community guidance and a positive drive to succeed against all odds. So when BMW South Africa took it upon itself to launch what seems to be a campaign that is almost anti or nullifying the belief and understanding of this notion, it is not only perplexing but also frustrating for black South Africans who subscribe to this belief. The element of respecting others and their beliefs has been completely ignored and I daresay misappropriated for shock value and disingenuous marketing. With this advert, BMW got it wrong.  It tried to use a popular phrase without understanding the context and the originating philosophy, to try to look cool or fit in but, in the end, achieved quite the opposite and offended millions of Africans. There was a huge backlash on social media platforms such as Twitter, with people condemning the advert. When reached for comment, BMW's response was “the advertising campaign was conceptualised to showcase South Africa’s diversity and inclusion, and not to question any person’s belief systems,” and that they “understand the wording of this example might have offended fans of the brand, for which we unreservedly apologise”. It's so unfortunate that almost 30 years into the new South Africa we still have to educate organisations on simple matters of sensitivity, given the history and continued struggle for social cohesion in our country. It is clear that with all the resources at its disposal, BMW SA did not take the time to test, research, or just plain right think about the impact of its messaging before it approved this advert. Is it because they believe what they posted? Do they believe in trivialising the beliefs of others that it only matters whether their customers are offended or not, and forget the rest of society? Do they understand the implications of their advert and is this the kind of moral leadership they choose to lead with? So much can be said about corporate South Africa and how it has distanced itself from the social cohesion project, but this is just something blatant and insulting to many South Africans, black South Africans in particular. Knowing where I come from and the struggles my forebears had to go through for me to be here, I can say with all certainty that I am indeed my ancestor's wildest dream and I will continue to flourish in their honour, as will many other young black South Africans, with or without BMW's “blessing”.