Cosatu president Zingiswa Losi has read the ANC the riot act saying workers are growing impatient and putting the organisation on notice until it gets its act together. “Workers were very clear in 2021 in the local elections. They have put the entire movement on notice. Workers are saying to the ANC today: dismantle the factions, remove incompetent deployees, unite the ANC and rebuild its structures,” said Losi. #ANC111: Cosatu President Zingiswa Losi says workers are tired of politicians making empty promises to end loadshedding. "The ANC needs to get its act together if it wants to win the elections." Ramaphosa will attend a church service at Waaihoek Church on Sunday morning and then proceed to the stadium at around 11am. The party celebrates its 111th birthday celebration after concluding part two of its 55th national conference which saw Ramaphosa being re-elected as party president for a second term. The party painted the streets of Mangaung green, black and gold as it engaged in several build-up activities including a fundraising gala dinner and golf day, mini rallies, visiting the grave sites of former ANC leaders and addressing party structures. Ramaphosa’s message is expected to re-emphasise the call for unity and renewal. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa has made it clear that those seeking to divide the party will be left out in the cold as the party forges ahead with its renewal agenda. “This process of renewal of the ANC and its unity, is not only irreversible, it’s irrevocable. It will not be stopped,” said Ramaphosa. He was giving keynote address at an ANC fundraising gala dinner at Imvelo Safari Lodge in the Free State on Saturday evening ahead of the party’s 111th birthday celebration on Sunday. Ramaphosa said the gathering of more than 450 people was important to the ANC. The party exceeded its target of raising R6m with a seat at Ramaphosa’s 10-seater table selling for R1.2m. Cyril Ramaphosa, visiting the Free State this week ahead of the ANC’s birthday bash today, described the party’s new generation of leaders, elected at its recent conference, as “merchants of hope”, determined to change South Africa for the better. With the president walking wounded after the Phala Phala mauling, the spotlight has turned inevitably to those who would fill the breach when the wounded buffalo succumbs, if he does. So the new generation takes on special significance. This is the last generation that fought apartheid. The new national executive committee (NEC) has been hailed as a generational change for the party. But it’s more than just younger people moving into the armchairs formerly occupied by their elders. It’s a development that’s likely to have a profound influence on how South Africa could evolve (or implode) in the years and decades ahead. The ANC’s January 8 statement, issued on the anniversary of the founding of South Africa’s oldest existing political formation, is an important declaration of the party’s programme for the year ahead. And with the ANC likely to dominate government for at least the next 18 months, the statement is a guide to all South Africans as to the party’s thinking and ideas about key areas of public life. It affects us all. Fresh from being re-elected president of the ANC, McBuffalo went to the Free State where he was the main attraction at the party’s birthday bash. First he had to tour the province begging people to come and watch as he and other bigwigs cut the birthday cake. At its annual national conference in May 1923, the South African Native National Congress (SANNC) resolved to change its name to the African National Congress (ANC). The centenary of this name-change is a critical moment to reflect on the party’s history of inclusive nationalism in light of the emerging narrow provincialism, political ethnic majoritarianism and the influence of money in leadership contests. Many mistakenly think the armed struggle brought it to its knees, but it was ordinary people’s efforts that resulted in its demise ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa may have been re-elected under a banner of renewal but the only brushing “Mr. Clean” seems to be doing is sweeping over the line between party and state. Ramaphosa's emerged victorious at the ANC's national conference last month, beating his  rival, former health minister Zweli Mkhize, to the presidency by 2,476 votes to 1,897. Ramaphosa rode to victory on the promise of continued renewal, a pledge he repeated at a wreath-laying ceremony at the gravesite of late ANC president Zaccheus Mahabane at Seeisoville cemetery in Kroonstad, Free State on Wednesday. “This is a new year, a year of real renewal in the ANC, a year of action because the new leadership that has been elected is action orientated,”  he said.