re you looking to start your first business this year? Scale your existing start-up? Or create a side hustle to earn some extra income? Now's your chance to get the expert guidance you need to achieve your entrepreneurship goals. Arena Academy, a corporate social investment initiative of Arena Holdings, the publisher of TimesLIVE and the Sunday Times, has teamed up with the School of Entrepreneurship to give away 101 bursaries to the 4LIFE Entrepreneurship Mastery Programme worth R19,995 each. Whether you've just finished matric, have a degree, or are tired of the corporate life and want to be your own boss, consider this online programme your blueprint to entrepreneurial success: it'll give you the coaching, knowledge, tools and ongoing support you need to start, scale and sustain a profitable business. The prospect of starting, running and growing a business can be overwhelming. And, if you don’t have an experienced coach to guide you,  you may make costly mistakes by guessing instead of following a proven process, waste time chasing dead-end ideas, and end up burning more money than you make. That's a recipe for endless frustration and, potentially, a financial disaster. But what if you had a team of world-class coaches, all accomplished entrepreneurs, to guide you by demystifying and simplifying the process? By signing up for the School of Entrepreneurship's online 4LIFE Entrepreneurship Mastery Programme, you can avoid many of the struggles that the typical business owner goes through because you'll get to plan, launch and run your business alongside  seasoned entrepreneurs. Practical in nature, the 4LIFE Entrepreneurship Mastery Programme takes place online and will provide you with the expert coaching, know-how and tools you need to start, scale and sustain a business. The coaching sessions are: A big perk of this particular programme is that you'll get lifetime access to all the content that's covered — including any future content upgrades — and get ongoing support as you continue your entrepreneurial journey. Module 1: Start your business Designed to act as a road map for anyone wanting to start their own business, module 1 begins on March 1 2023 and will run for three months. It'll cover topics such as: Module 2: Scale your business Starting on June 1, module 2 will run for six months. During this time, you'll get training from a team of entrepreneurs who will help you with scaling your new business. It'll cover topics such as: Module 3: Sustain your business Lasting indefinitely, module 3 gives you lifetime access to: Once enrolled in the 4LIFE Entrepreneurship Mastery Programme, you'll benefit from the expertise and support of a team of coaches, each of whom is an experienced entrepreneur. These include: