Pupils and teachers were only able to get back to school on Monday after Nkandla residents shut down  the northern KwaZulu-Natal town  last week while protesting for  proper roads. Protesters blocked access to schools and  burnt  property, including a mobile ambulance. The angry residents  blocked the P61/2, P50, P90, P16 and P707 with stones and burning tyres. They claimed  they were unable to move their vehicles after heavy rains. The residents  refused to open the roads until they had met with the provincial leadership,  who they  claim have made  empty promises for years. Sipho Hlomuka, MEC for transport, community safety &  liaison, met with the community on Friday to restore law and order. He also met  representatives of King Cetshwayo district, the Nkandla municipality, local traditional leadership and  security structures. During the meeting, the department tabled a comprehensive plan for all major roads in Nkandla, some of which need to be upgraded from gravel to tar and others maintained and rehabilitated. “The plan was  detailed in a stakeholder meeting with amakhosi and representatives of the King Cetshwayo district, Nkandla  municipality, local taxi operators and the business community,” Hlomuka said. He said the meeting included input from  engineers who have  started assessing and planning roads such as the P16 and  P50. Hlomuka welcomed co-operation with all structures in Nkandla and said  constructive engagement is the only solution to solve problems instead of using force. “We welcome the reports we received this morning indicating all roads in the Nkandla area are open. However, we are monitoring the situation very closely and police operations  will continue. “We appreciate  co-operation with the different stakeholders in solving the problems with road infrastructure in the area. This shows we can achieve a lot if we work together as  provincial government, local government and amakhosi without politicising things.” He said the department will ensure  all submitted plans are monitored and there are regular discussions with the community and structures in Nkandla. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.