Swallows could only hold on for about an hour against this relentless Mamelodi Sundowns machine that is swaggering towards a sixth championship title. As the clocked ticked past 60 minutes, it appeared Swallows could get something from this DStv Premiership match at Loftus but Sundowns exploded into a full-blown marvel to register an ultimately impressive 2-0 win. In the bigger scheme of things, the Brazilians have extended their lead at the top of the table to 34 points, a seven-point advantage ahead second-placed SuperSport United. This was the fourth successive league win for Rulani Mokwena since he was appointed. Even more impressive, Sundowns have scored 12 goals since Mokwena took over the coaching reins, winning 5-0 against Maritzburg United, 3-0 against Royal AM, 2-0 against Orlando Pirates and 2-0 against Swallows. For Middendorp it is back to the drawing board as they are second-from-bottom in the league and will be under pressure to get a positive result in their next match on Saturday against Chippa United at home. Sundowns will be looking to tighten their grip at the top of the standings when they visit Richards Bay at the King Zwelithini Stadium in Durban on Saturday. Sundowns made two changes to the team that beat Pirates last weekend with Sifiso Ngobeni coming in for Thapelo Morena and Cassius Mailula for Abubeker Nasir. In his second match in charge of Swallows, new coach Ernst Middendorp rang some changes from the team that lost 1-0 away to Richards Bay last weekend with Mthokozisi Shwabule replaced by Kamal Sait in defence and Tlakusani Mthethwa replaced by Kwanda Mngonyama in midfield. In attack Middendorp started with Kagiso Malinga ahead of veteran striker Zambian striker Mwape Musonda while Siyabonga Khumalo was replaced by Pentje Zulu. In an unusual tactical ploy, Middendorp used defender Mngonyama in central midfield to try to nullify with the threat of Teboho Mokoena, Themba Zwane, Marcelo Allende and Neo Maema. Sundowns opened the scoring after 62 minutes through attacking midfielder Maema who rifled home a thunderous shot from inside the box to give Swallows goalkeeper Thakasani Mbanjwa no chance. The goal was a result of a good attacking move that was started by Zwane in midfield and ended with Khuliso Mudau delivering a good cross for Maema to trap and control before kissing the back of the net. Four minutes later, Sundowns increased their lead in breathtaking style when Zwane registered his second goal after he received a defence-splitting pass from Mailula.