Opposition party leaders  got no joy from their meeting with President Cyril Ramaphosa  on Sunday night to discuss the  rolling blackouts. The irony was that several leaders could not participate in the virtual meeting due to load-shedding. Among them was DA leader John Steenhuisen, who last week wrote to Ramaphosa requesting a meeting to discuss the  energy crisis. “I couldn’t attend because of load-shedding, I don’t have Wi-Fi during load-shedding and my other stuff had run down,” Steenhuisen told TimesLIVE on Monday. TimesLIVE has seen messages from a WhatsApp group in which Ramaphosa’s parliamentary counsellor Gerhard Koornhof informed party leaders of the meeting. “I have load-shedding this evening at that time and given the rude and dismissive response I received from the president's office when I requested a meeting with him it is clear  we are not taken seriously,” Steenhuisen wrote in the group. ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe also  said he would be  in load-shedding at the time of the  meeting. The African Transformation Movement’s Vuyo Zungula was also having load-shedding, but he later said he was not going to participate in any case, accusing Ramaphosa of not consulting in good faith. “He undermines us. He calls us to these meetings, we comment and give suggestions, but when he goes out he communicates whatever he wants and creates an impression that whatever he is communicating has the support of party leaders.” The UDM’s Bantu Holomisa  declined the invitation, saying he would be busy with his lawyers finalising  documents to be served  on Eskom and government about the failure to ensure a stable supply of electricity. On Monday, Holomisa and a group of  prominent South Africans wrote to outgoing Eskom  CEO Andre de Ruyter and  public enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan, demanding  government stabilise the supply  or face legal action for  failing  to provide energy. For PAC president Mzwanele Nyhontso, the meeting “felt like a tickbox exercise”. “There was nothing new, it was the same stuff  we heard last year and what has been in the news,” he said. “There was no need for that meeting. It was a repeat of the things they say every day in press statements.” Among the topics discussed was De Ruyter’s resignation and alleged poisoning, and finding his replacement. Leaders were told  the country will be on stage 6 for some time, though this is scheduled to  drop to stage 5 and 4  from Tuesday. Nyhontso said Gordhan gave  the background to load-shedding, focusing on the impact of state capture on Eskom. But mineral resources and energy minister Gwede Mantashe  was silent. Due to the ongoing energy crisis, Ramaphosa cancelled his  trip to the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland, this week. The EFF confirmed  its leaders participated in the meeting. The party said Ramaphosa opened the meeting “with an objectionable and utterly false statement” that the government was not solely responsible for the provision of electricity and  “we must all take responsibility”. This was not only objectionable but “ludicrous and irresponsible”. EFF leader Julius Malema called on Ramaphosa to step down, saying he had repeatedly failed to provide electricity to the people of South Africa. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.