A KwaZulu-Natal police officer  has been sentenced to 15 years imprisonment for the murder of his friend and 25 years for the murder of his girlfriend three weeks ago. Const Lindokuhle Sikhakhane, 27, pleaded guilty in the Pietermaritzburg high court on Monday. Sikhakhane, who was stationed at Bishopstowe police station,  killed his friend Sandile Nene, 30, from Imbali, and his girlfriend Samukelisiwe Mtshali, 22, who lived in Nquthu. In his plea statement, Sikhakhane said he spoke to Mtshali on the phone on January 6, who told him she was not well and had decided to leave Pietermaritzburg for her parents' home in Nquthu. Sikhakhane said he called her again but Mtshali did not  answer and he was worried. He called Nene to  drive him to Nquthu  for  R3,000. During the trip, Sikhakhane kept calling Mtshali but she did not answer and he decided to call his sister-in-law  but could not reach her either. Sikhakhane then  received a text message from Mtshali telling him  she did not want to  speak to him. When he  texted back, Mtshali replied  he was not allowed to come to her home and the reason she did not answer his call was that she was angry with him for  making her pregnant. Sikhakhane heard the voice of  a man asking her who she was talking to  and suddenly she ended the call. This confirmed his suspicions  she was involved with another man. During the  drive, Nene complained that it was a long-distance  trip and  Sikhakhane had to add R2,000 to the originally agreed upon  price of R3,000. An argument ensued and Sikhakhane was upset that Nene was deviating from the  agreement. “Nene asked Sikhakhane to stop the vehicle so  he could relieve himself on the side of the road. He got out and got on the driver's side, and Sikhakhane noticed  Nene was  shooting at him. Sikhakhane managed to get out and started shooting back, killing Nene before returning to the car and driving to Nquthu,” the plea states. Sikhakhane drove to Newcastle where Mtshali had studied and called a number he had found  on her phone a year ago. A man answered who  confirmed  he had met  Mtshali on January 6 and  apologised. Sikhakhane  returned to Nquthu and went to her house where he confirmed  she had not slept there on the  day. He called Mtshali and told her what he knew, but  she denied it and they arranged to meet in Dundee on January 8,  intending to go to Pietermaritzburg together. “Sikhakhane informed Mtshali on the way back to Pietermaritzburg and they would stop by his main residence at Ezimbubeni in Pomeroy. They drove off and continued to argue on the way until Sikhakhane parked the car under a tree, got out and told Mtshali to get out as well. “He continued to question her about the pregnancy and paternity of her other children, but she continued to deny any cheating and that she had slept with a man in Newcastle on January 6. He asked her to unlock her phone so he could retrieve  messages but she refused,” the court papers said. This enraged Sikhakhane and he decided to shoot her. Sikhakhane left her  body and drove to his house in Ezimbubeni, where he  told his mother  what he had done and  he would go to the police to turn himself in, which he did. Sikhakhane said  he knew  his action was wrong. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.