Makgotso Lee-Anne Mokopo, popularly known as Gogo Maweni of Izangoma Zodumo fame, has shaken the table many times in Mzansi, trending at number one on Twitter for different reasons. From owning various pets to witchcraft claims and other controversial comments, she really grabbed ordinary South Africans' attention. Here are five times Gogo Maweni dropped jars. The controversial statement thrust her into the spotlight almost instantly and created animosity between her and tweeps who believed she was making life a little difficult for one of her baby daddies. She later distanced herself from witchcraft claims and said  her comments were in jest. “The matter concerning Mr Khoza is entirely his business and does not involve Dr Maweni. Furthermore, Dr Maweni would like to wish the best for Mr Khoza to happily co-parent their beautiful child. Previous social media posts were said in jest and had no malice to them." Speaking to TshisaLIVE, Gogo Maweni said she was grateful to her ancestors. “They [ancestors] took me out of a lot ... I know how much I get out of it, they saved me. They saved me through that relationship, they've saved me through the next relationship and I'm here now, I'm here to make a noise.” The sangoma said someone was trying to bewitch her, but she was not shaken. On Instagram, she shared a video of a dead owl she found at her doorstep when returning home from Botswana. She suggested the bird denoted someone had tried to cast a spell on her. In a video on Instagram, the reality TV star said women should not be impressed by men’s riches without knowing how they were acquired. Watch the video below: Gogo Maweni was accused of stealing a festival concept from traditional healer Romeo Malepe when she announced her Ubungoma Festival. It took place at Constitutional Hill on October 1. According to City Press, Malepe accused Gogo Maweni of using her newfound fame and money to steal his Ancestor's Picnic concept. She dismissed the claims, saying the traditional healer was trying to bring attention to himself by using her name, as the ideas were not the same. In October Gogo Maweni had a sit-down with rapper Gigi Lamayne on her POV podcast. She opened up about her past with a popular actor with whom she has a child. She called the person names and made drug-use allegations that the actor denied in the past.