The Mangaung municipality in the Free State has warned  residents that extended power cuts  will lead to water supply interruption. The municipality urged  residents to use water sparingly during load-shedding or maintenance of the electricity network, while it is working towards getting backup generators. Spokesperson Qondile Khedama said on Friday  water-shedding may be experienced in  parts of the city during extended periods of load-shedding or power outages. “This is not particular to Mangaung. Research conducted by the Water Research Commission found that consistent load-shedding or power outages do have an effect on water supply and quality,” he said. Electricity is one of the  factors — including chemicals, personnel and ICT — in the water “supply system”, from  source to treatment and  eventual distribution to homes, schools and businesses, he said “In the various stages of water supply, pumping requires the most electricity in the   system, which makes it  more dependent on electricity.” When there are electricity disruptions, this may  affect water availability, quality and treatment, he said, adding that when Eskom carries out maintenance on its systems or substations, this also affects the power supply at water treatment works, pump stations or reservoirs — a regular occurrence in parts of Thaba Nchu, Wepener, Dewetsdorp, Vanstadensrus and Soutpan. The pump station that supplies water to these areas is operated manually and sometimes trips after load-shedding, which causes supply interruptions or low pressure, he said. “In Bloemfontein, areas such as Heuwelsig, Hillsboro, Groenvlei, Spitskop and others have also been affected. This is one of the reason’s the city is prioritising upgrading and maintenance of our water infrastructure.” Khedama said the risk of water interruptions is low during the normal two-hour load-shedding period but  may change over  extended periods. “Where there is a need, the city  uses emergency reserves to ensure uninterrupted supply. However, the escalation of load-shedding to stage 6 has led to more regular water supply interruptions in  parts of Mangaung.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.