South Africa’s first speaker of a democratic parliament,  Frene Ginwala, has died at the age of 90. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s office announced on Friday that Ginwala, who was a recipient of the Order of Luthuli, died at home on Thursday  after a stroke two weeks ago. “Today we mourn the passing of a formidable patriot and leader of our nation, and an internationalist to whom justice and democracy around the globe remained an impassioned objective to her last days,” said Ramaphosa. He offered  condolences to Ginwala’s family, her nephews Cyrus, Sohrab and Zavareh, and their families. Born Frene Noshir Ginwala on  April 25 1932, she served the anti-apartheid struggle and  South Africa's democratic dispensation in  various roles as a lawyer, academic,  politician, activist and journalist. Presidency spokesperson Vincent Magwenya said Ginwala was honoured with the Order of Luthuli in Silver in 2005 for her  contribution to the struggle against gender oppression and her tireless contribution to the struggle for a non-sexist, nonracial, just and democratic  South Africa. Ramaphosa said: “Among the many roles she adopted in the course of a life she led to the full, we are duty-bound to recall her establishment of our democratic parliament which exercised the task of undoing decades-old apartheid legislation and fashioning the legislative foundations of the free and democratic South Africa. “Many of the rights and material benefits South Africans enjoy today have their origins in the legislative programme of the inaugural democratic parliament under  Ginwala’s leadership, with Nelson Mandela occupying the seat of the first president to be elected by the democratic parliament. “Frene Ginwala epitomised the ethos and expectations of our then fledgling constitution and played an important role in building the capacity of parliament through the transformation of activists and leaders into lawmakers who were in turn able to transform our country. “Ginwala was similarly influential and instrumental in shaping the advancement of democracy and the entrenchment of democratic political processes and fundamental socioeconomic rights in the Southern African Development Community and the continent. “Beyond African shores, she positioned our young democracy  as one that had as much to contribute to as it had to learn from global precedents and experience. “We have lost another giant among a special generation of leaders to whom we owe our freedom and to whom we owe our commitment to keep building the South Africa to which they devoted their all.” Magwenya said the government respects the family’s wishes for a private funeral. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.