Nigerian record producer Peter Kelvin Amba, popularly known by his trademark “It's Kel-P Vibes”, is ready to put a face to the well-known brand behind many hit songs by launching his singing career. Having produced songs like Wiz Kid's Ginger, DJ SPINALL's Sere, Rema's FYN, and Burna Boy's Ghona among many others, Kel-P says he wants to fulfil his life-long dream by being at the forefront of the music industry. “I never knew I was going to be a producer but I fell in love with the craft, and just kept doing it. I wanted to be an artist, when my producing career kicked off I continued producing now I need a next level for myself,” he tells TshisaLIVE. For the past 23 months, the musician has been travelling the world,  visiting Portugal, Jamaica, LA, London, Paris and other cities on a quest to perfect his sound which led to him recording 120 song which he feels will result in a couple of hit singles. “One of the main reasons why I took so long was that I was looking for my sound. What also delayed it was that in between, I was working Rema's album, Wiz Kid, Fireboy, Burna Boy “I would play one of my beats and people would ask whether it was one of these other big artists' songs. I was now thinking about people who have never heard of Kel-P, not about the fact that there might be people who already know me.” His vision is to make more music that makes people dance. He will be launching his upcoming single One More Night on Friday which is from one of the two EPs he plans to launch in 2023 and which he dedicates to hard working women. “There are women taking time out to make their own money, taking care of themselves who should be appreciated. I want to make them dance. I facetimed five different girls from different countries and they said the song made them want to dance “I told myself that all the songs from the 90s and early 2000s I will sample them one by one and make hits of them. From T-Pain, to Akon and more. We went back and fourth clearing samples which took up to seven months.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.