Parliament’s legal services have been asked to assess the legality of public enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan’s reluctance to share with parliament details of the sale  between his department and SAA’s chosen strategic equity partner Takatso Consortium. The legislature’s standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) asked Gordhan in November to provide  details on the sale of  51% of  government’s shareholding in SAA, including the sale price and management accounts. Scopa chair Mkhuleko Hlengwa told TimesLIVE on Monday  Gordhan provided some information but cited market sensitivity for the rest of MPs' questions. “I am referring minister Gordhan's letter and responses to outstanding questions ... to parliament's legal services to assess the legality and validity of the reasons advanced by the minister insofar market sensitivity being the basis upon which some information can't be released to the committee,” said Hlengwa. He  confirmed receiving a letter from DA MP Alf Lees who announced on Monday  he would urge Hlengwa to escalate “Gordhan’s malfeasance” to national assembly speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and  the leader of government business in parliament, Deputy President David Mabuza, to force Gordhan to provide the  information and ensure  parliament takes whatever disciplinary action against him for failing in this regard. “Failure by parliament to ensure that Gordhan provides  the information as required will set a dangerous precedent whereby any minister will be able to refuse to provide information/replies to parliament whenever they do not  want to do so,” said Lees. He also wanted Hlengwa to obtain an opinion from  parliament's legal  adviser on Gordhan's obligation to provide  information and reports  to the committee. He  would also write to President Cyril Ramaphosa to demand  he  acts to ensure  Gordhan provides  the information. “I will also demand that President Ramaphosa dismiss Gordhan as  minister of public enterprises and not appoint him to any other cabinet position.” At its November 15 meeting, Scopa wanted more details about the deal that will see Takatso acquire 51% of government’s shareholding in SAA and information about the airline’s performance since it resumed flights  in September 2021. At the time, Gordhan and SAA management told the committee they couldn’t provide detailed information, saying the deal should be viewed in the context of a close period. Gordhan said while SAA was a government entity it operated within a competitive industry. MPs want to know how Takatso was selected and who were the other bidders and what were they offering.  They also want to know about SAA’s performance  and its losses and profits since September 2021 when it resumed scheduled flights  and how  operations  are funded. It was decided  the answers  should be submitted in writing, but Gordhan indicated they  would need to establish which details could be shared with MPs. Government decided it  would no longer fund SAA from the fiscus and a strategic equity partner would be sought to provide the necessary capital injection into SAA. A memorandum of understanding was signed in June 2021. In February 2022 the sale and purchase agreement that contains the terms and conditions of the transaction was entered into but  these have been kept under wraps. Key elements of the partnership are that the Takatso consortium will own 51% of the airline and government will own 49%. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.