January 25 2023 - 10:35 The DA is convening at the Mary Fitzgerald Square with supporters of the #PowerToThePeopleMarch where they will be addressed by various leaders including Chief Whip Siviwe Gwarube as they take to the ANC headquarters over the country’s energy crisis January 25 2023 - 10:17 Scores of people dressed in blue trickled into Johannesburg's Mary Fitzgerald Square on Wednesday morning ahead of the DA's “power to the people” march. Police and marshals have been deployed to ensure the event is peaceful. This after the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) said it would “protect” ANC headquarters Luthuli House against the marchers. January 25 2023 - 10:11 With electrical cables, a clothes iron and stripped wires coiled around her neck, DA supporter Agnus Khumalo strikes a shocking image. The mother of five was one of hundreds of DA supporters who gathered at Mary Fitzgerald Square in Johannesburg's bustling city centre in preparation for the opposition party's planned march to Luthuli House over South Africa's electricity crisis. January 25 2023 - 09:03 DA responds to the ANCYL's stance to 'defend' Luthuli House January 25 2023 - 08:55 ANCYL explains why it is protecting the party's headquarters January 25 2023 - 08:33 DA marches to ANC headquarters over load-shedding The  DA is expected to march to Luthuli House in Johannesburg on Wednesday. The official opposition party’s Power To The People march is directed at the ANC headquarters as they believe the ruling party’s corruption and policy of cadre deployment is directly responsible for the energy crisis  in which the country finds itself. The ANC Youth League is adamant  it will defend Luthuli House. They said should the DA dare approach the  party’s headquarters, they will redirect the DA to where they should relay their frustrations, which is   Eskom’s head office in Sandton. This is a developing story. -Sisanda Mbolekwa Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month. 