President Cyril Ramaphosa says there is going to be “urgency” to address South Africa's problems during his second term. “There is going to be urgency. There is going to be action-orientated processes to implement things and to get things moving,” he  told media on Monday. Ramaphosa was responding to a question about his plans  and the legacy he  wants to leave at the end of his second term. The mandate from the  ANC's 55th national conference was clear. Six priority areas were identified “and that is going to be my area of focus and to get the right people to do the right jobs”. “It is part of the professionalisation. It cascades down and   affects the public service, and to get people  to do the heavy lifting as I am prepared to do the heavy lifting myself.” Ramaphosa has been  criticised for being “indecisive” and taking too long to act. He was re-elected ANC president with a big mandate last month. He dismissed  reports that he wanted to resign  after the section 89 panel’s report  in November. The panel  found  he may have a prima facie  case to answer  about the robbery at his game farm. “Was there ever a time you felt ‘I’m done with this, I want to go back to business’?" he was asked. “I’ve been elected president, that’s my job, that’s my day job. You are stuck with me,” he  responded. Renewing the  ANC and  making it a vehicle  to effectively address the needs of the people was key. Ramaphosa said load-shedding keeps him awake. “We need to address that and it is  urgent.” Unemployment  and crime also  needed to be urgently addressed,,  while attracting investment  was another challenge. Ramaphosa said industrial policy  would have to be revamped and  aligned with  South Africa's challenges. “That is a process that is also going to have to be focused on because  to get moving on our economic fortunes we need to have an industrial policy that will respond, for  example, to our trade and economic position in Africa as backed up by the African continental free trade area. We need to get those two aligned. “The ambition is there, the resolve is there, and because of the economic challenges we  face, we are going to move quite dramatically on  those. And I would say, watch this space,”  Ramaphosa said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.