Basic education minister Angie Motshekga has conceded that overcrowding in  schools is a dire problem  with negative effects. “It is a serious problem. Schools are carrying double the capacity and that is going to impact negatively on learning and teaching and  infrastructure  in all aspects,” she said. Motshekga visited four schools  in Diepsloot and Cosmo City in Johannesburg on Wednesday  to monitor the first day of the  academic year. She said overcrowding was a national problem which  also  affected safety of  pupils and teachers. “From Limpopo to Lusikisiki [Eastern Cape], and that is why cabinet has approved a programme, a special intervention, which we will roll out from the next financial year to work with provinces to deal with overcrowding.” Last year the department  reviewed overcrowding  in schools nationally  and has approached the National Treasury  for funding  for more classrooms. “We won’t put up mobiles [classrooms], we will  build more classes using [the] community,  because sometimes you just need four classrooms  and you don’t need to build  a whole school,” she said. The Treasury  would provide funds  to help the department work with communities to build  more classrooms. Everything possible was being done to place pupils, she said. . “For now they [schools] are registering all the  children  they have on  record and we will have a sense in the next 10 days where the spaces are. “I know it is  frustrating for the parents. I will also be  frustrated if on day one I don’t know where my child is going to go,” she said. “Some areas are  responding by asking churches to accommodate children, some areas, I am told,  are  opening closed colleges. So we are doing everything to place them.” Despite the frustrations  parents had with online admissions applications,  the system would not be scrapped. “It [admission problems] didn’t come with  online applications. Even when I was MEC we  had problems  placing children and there was no ICT programme which would tell us where  the spaces are, where  the learners are. “This online process helps us  have a clear picture of where  the places are, where  the children are ...  we have more overcrowding, we have more problems, but they didn’t come with online registration,” she said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.