Mampintsha’s mother, Zamanguni Gumede, has reportedly been hospitalised after suffering a stroke. This after the grieving mother buried her son, Big Nuz member Mandla “Mampintsha” Maphumulo, in December. Mampintsha suffered a stroke before his death. According to ZiMoja, Gumede’s health has slumped since the death of her son and she is now unable to speak or walk. Mampintsha’s sister Pinky Gumede told the publication her mother had liver complications since 2016 and the death of her son had taken its toll. “She is not taking Mandla’s death well. She started feeling ill before him but got worse when he was first admitted to the hospital,” she said. “The doctor says her liver has been affected and she also has been diagnosed with a stroke. But her stroke is not bad, she will not be disabled if she takes her medication. She has not been able to eat properly and that is affecting how she takes her medication.” Attempts by TshisaLIVE to get comment from Pinky Gumede were unsuccessful at the time of publishing this article. An update will be included once received. Pinky went on to say Zamanguni needed to be admitted to a private hospital and was in need of a psychologist to help her deal with trauma. She appealed to the public for help. Pinky said she and her family were “too scared” to approach Babes’s family for  assistance. Meanwhile, Babes  has been shooting up trends lists  since the death of her husband with videos of her performing at nightclubs and her live posts on social media going viral. A clip of Babes’s alleged WhatsApp status, apparently showing CCTV footage from her home, has been making the rounds on the timeline. In the video, the star narrates how a woman is wiping a bedroom door in a way the musician finds suspicious. Mampintsha’s mother had previously expressed her disapproval of the gqom star’s behaviour while in mourning. This after the two in-laws kissed and made up at the funeral. “Namuhla ngiyahlambuluka, MaGumede. I would like to forgive you for all your sins because I’m a child of a pastor. I’m saved,” Babes said. “I forgive you. I ask that whatever dispute we have ends, starting today.” When speaking of the rift between Mampintsha’s family and her own, Babes explained how never being accepted by her in-laws had affected her. “I was wrong. I did all that because I was hurt ... Not being accepted by my in-laws is painful. Other girls are loved by their mothers-in-law — they embrace them. Mine have never embraced me. Instead I was greeted with a video riddled with profanities.”