The 2023 Springbok Women programme starts  on Sunday with 31 players, including nine without caps, invited to a training camp in Stellenbosch. The players will go through fitness testing, medical screening and training under SA Rugby’s high-performance manager for women's rugby Lynne Cantwell. She will be assisted by Junior Springbok coach Bafana Nhleko. The uncapped players are Saliswa Miseli (Border Ladies), Vainah Ubisi (Golden Lions Women), Mary Zulu (Sharks Women), Byhandre Dolf (EP Queens), Ruscha Garman, Leigh Fortuin, Thandolwethu Hena, Asiphe Mayaba (all Western Province) and Lebogang Ralebona (Blue Bulls Women). Players who played for South Africa during last year’s Rugby World Cup in New Zealand and will  be absent due to injury are Zintle Mpupha, Sizophila Solontsi, Simamkele Namba, Rumandi Potgieter, Lindelwa Gwala and Nomawethu Mabenge. Also missing the camp will be retired Zenay Jordaan and Catha Jacobs, who is  with Saracens in England.  Nadine Roos is Japan-bound but will attend the camp. “We are restarting the Springbok Women programme for the year and this camp will be a good start to see where we are in  fitness, medical and core skills assessments,” said Cantwell. “This is a fitness testing and core skills assessment camp where we’ll get baseline measures from each players across medical, fitness and five identified core rugby skills. As we face into the next World Cup cycle which will shift a gear in how we train and play, gathering our baselines in  these key areas will help us be targeted with our planning. “The camp will also assist us in getting information from the players on their training when away from national camps. It’s exciting to be talking about growing the talent base and getting more players game exposure.” Cantwell confirmed  the vacancies  in the coaching and management staff will be filled as soon as possible. The Springbok Women training squad: Aseza Hele (Boland Dames), Yonela Ngxingolo, Saliswa Miseli, Aphiwe Ngwevu, Eloise Webb (all Border Ladies), Vainah Ubisi (Mastercard Golden Lions Women), Mary Zulu, Nompumelelo Mathe, Tayla Kinsey (all Cell C Sharks Women), Sanelisiwe Charlie, Byhandre Dolf (EP Queens), Nolusindiso Booi, Azisa Mkiva, Chumisa Qawe, Sinazo Mcatshulwa, Babalwa Latsha, Roseline Botes, Ruscha Garman, Leigh Fortuin, Luchell Hanekom, Thandolwethu Hena, Asiphe Mayaba (all DHL Western Province), Lerato Makua, Rights Mkhari, Libbie Janse van Rensburg, Unam Tose, Jakkie Cilliers, Nadine Roos, Lebogang Ralebona, Ayanda Malinga, Lusanda Dumke (all Blue Bulls Women). Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.