A Durban man who allegedly had his car completely stripped while it was at  the  police pound in Isipingo is demanding answers. According to  Thulani Cebekhulu from Durban North, his Opel Corsa was hijacked while being driven by his brother in Avoca Hills on December 10 2021. Cebekhulu said  his brother was robbed at gunpoint  by two men. On April 4 2022, the car was spotted in KwaMashu and  the police were called in for help. “The car was still the same. The body and the rims were still the same and that's why they managed to spot it. They found that everything was corresponding with my documents,  even though it was tampered with a bit,” said Cebekhulu. “The police then drove the car to the pound for further investigation and also to check if it was not linked to any other criminal activities. I thought the process was going to be fast as I needed my car for  my business, but they delayed.” Cebekhulu said he made numerous attempts to get his car back but was denied even seeing the car. He said it was only after he involved his attorney, that  he was finally allowed to  see it. “I was shocked when I saw my car. It was like  walking into a scrap yard and I could not  identify it until they  pointed it out  to me. It was completely stripped  and everything was gone  including the wires. It was just a shell and chairs. “The sad part is that when they drove the car to the pound it was fine. The engine, lights, battery and wires are now all gone. “I still don't understand why would the car be stripped whilst at the pound. Who permitted them to do that? Who did it? Where are the parts? I have a lot of questions. “It's painful  because we pay a lot of money for those cars. I am not going to rest until I get my car back.” According to Cebekhulu, the matter is now being dealt with by   his attorney as they are preparing for legal actions against the  police. A list of questions was   sent to the police for comment. However, they did not respond. Instead,  KwaZulu-Natal  police spokesperson Lt-Col  Nqobile Gwala confirmed  a case of carjacking was opened for investigation  Greenwood Park  police station after the complainant was robbed of his vehicle by two unknown males at Avoca Hills. Gwala said the vehicle was recovered in KwaMashu and the docket was closed. “If there is new evidence, [the case] will be reopened,” said Gwala. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.