President Cyril Ramaphosa has given the strongest indication yet that government is likely to declare a state of disaster on  South Africa's energy crisis. Speaking at the end of the ANC’s national executive committee lekgotla on Monday, Ramaphosa said work was under way  to establish legal requirements for such a declaration. Summarising the discussions of the past two days, Ramaphosa said there was a clear direction from the  lekgotla that government has to resolve the load-shedding crisis in a much shorter time  than what has been projected. A set of actions has been set out to achieve that, he said. “There was talk about declaration of a national state of disaster like what we did when we faced Covid-19 and there is broad agreement  we should move in that direction,” he said. “Work is already under way within government to establish whether the legal requirements for the declaration of a national state of disaster are met and what specifically we would be empowered to undertake to urgently resolve load-shedding within the framework of the national state of disaster.” He said the matter  would receive urgent attention in government  and  would  be discussed thoroughly at the government lekgotla  in the next few days. “It is a matter that should be attended to and resolved without delay.” Ramaphosa said a national state of disaster was necessary  to  give the state  instruments  to  address the challenge. “I must add that this proposal has been articulated in a number of consultations  we have held with role players, from traditional leaders to social formations, community-based organisations, trade unions, business and many others. “So this matter is being addressed with the urgency  it requires.” Ramaphosa said the lekgotla agreed  a decisive national energy crisis action plan has to be rolled out with a  focus on the mobilisation of  government and society so  the process is not seen as  the responsibility of government alone. The lekgotla agreed that co-ordination of the government’s response be escalated to the most senior levels and be clearly communicated. “Yes, there should be many voices, but the message must be a  single message so  there is no confusion and this we shall do.” Ramaphosa will co-ordinate  the processes to ensure  the energy crisis is properly addressed  as he did during Covid-19. The DA has  repeatedly called for the declaration of a state of disaster on Eskom under the Disaster Management Act, saying this would enable the government to act with speed to prioritise disaster relief funding and ensure all encumbrances — labour, localisation, cadre deployment and preferential procurement are banished while  the crisis is dealt with. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.