Entrepreneur, author, celebrity chef and all round Mr Cool, Tebello “Tibz” Motsoane was the epitome of love as one speaker  after another at his memorial service  shared how much he touched their lives. The  service was held at his  Alma Mater, Sacred Heart College in Observatory, Johannesburg. Tibz's friend Sthe Mabanga answered a question that was on many South Africans' minds when the news broke that the chef died alongside AKA. They  were  shot dead at a popular restaurant in Durban's Florida Road on Friday night. “Tibz flew to Durban to be with me on my birthday, that's why he was there,”  Mabanga said. Sthe said Tibz was excited to  fly to Durban for his birthday and  already had outfits planned for their get together The hall was full of sobs as he recalled and detailed the  events leading up to the  moment Tibz died. “We spoke at about  6.30pm, I was at Umhlanga. I said, 'Tibz come here, we are all having drinks here'. He says, 'no I  have to  see Kiernan'. He said, 'I'm  going to go to Florida  quick, I'm  going to see the child [AKA] and then I'm  going to come to you'. “I spoke to him again, probably  about 9pm. I called Aubrey, who was supposed to go meet him, and when Aubrey and I spoke I told him to 'come [where] we are in Umhlanga, Tibz is  going to come and join us here, don't go to Florida'. Aubrey took an Uber and he came and then the news just started streaming in, we felt like the world had  stopped,  nothing made sense. We stopped everything  we were doing and we drove.” He thanked the people  on the scene who tried to preserve the pair's dignity after they were killed. “I  send my appreciation to Ndu and Ntokozo from New Bars; as soon as the incident had taken place they were quite quick, they covered Kiernan and they looked after Tibz until we got there and we were with them the whole time until they were taken at about 3.30am. And that was an incredible experience, but it also showed me the bond  the two of them had. It showed me the love  they had. Tibz loved Kiernan, he loved him, he always called him his child. Tibz ran his race and what an incredible race.” Sthe said Tibz was  happy in his life. “Tibz fascinated me, I was truly in awe of Tibz. Listening to everybody here speak today [Thursday], I realise Tibz has gone through all stages of life. I was quite blessed to have shared moments in his last phase of his life. “Tibz was incredibly happy at this time of his life. His  30s in a lot of ways represented evolution, which often involves conflicts with people you love, it involves solitude, it involves growth and those that you love are sometimes used as a conduit, as a vessel for your growth. “So in that walk of that conflict and growth, I think it's important that a lot us release whatever we might hold about our interaction with Tibz in the last  few years that could've been better. I think you were used as a vessel for Tibz to find his true happiness which is where he was now.” Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.