EFF leader Julius Malema has claimed there is a state-sponsored threat on his life. According to Malema, the intelligence information he received was that he was going to be stabbed by one of the parliament security officers. So concerned was Malema about the threat that he informed the deputy minister of police but was awaiting feedback. Malema revealed this to the media just minutes after being forcefully removed from the National Assembly for disrupting the state of the nation address. He said the attempt on his life was premeditated as those behind the plan had anticipated the EFF’s move to disrupt President Cyril Ramaphosa’s speech. “When I came here, crime intelligence told me there is a person deployed among the white shirts with a sharp object so that when I get pushed out I must be stabbed with the sharp object,” Malema claimed. EFF MPs were ejected from the National Assembly after raising points of order every time Ramaphosa attempted to speak. When Malema took to the stage with a placard parliament officers grabbed him and various other EFF MPs. Their gripe was that Ramaphosa cannot address the nation as he has shown no confidence in parliament by taking the Phala Phala report to court. LISTEN | Sona suspended briefly after EFF refuses to go without a fight The report had found Ramaphosa has an impeachable case to answer concerning what transpired at his Limpopo farm in 2020. Malema said the National Assembly speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula broke the law by ordering EFF MPs be removed from parliament. “When you abandon rules of parliament for emotion this is what happens. She violated every code of the law and this must be declared unconstitutional and unparliamentary,” Malema said. Meanwhile, ATM MP Vuyo Zungula, who was thrown out of the chamber before the EFF, also cried foul. Addressing the media outside the City Hall he said Mapisa-Nqakula had treated him unfairly. “It is very clear ... What the speaker is doing is to intimidate MPs and we are not going to allow a timid parliament whereby the executive is not held accountable. “She may belong to the ruling party but we are going to do all in our might to make sure that parliament is a parliament of the people of SA, and not one of the ruling party where they are going to use the rules to suppress members of other parties,” he said. After the removal of the EFF members and Zungula, Ramaphosa continued with his address. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.