Over the past few weeks the entire country has been brought to a standstill by the gripping rollout to AKA’s eagerly anticipated fourth studio album Mass Country. While his untimely death has been a bitter pill to swallow for the nation at large, the Megacy have been determined to celebrate the rap icon’s legacy in the best way possible: through music and a new album available on all digital platforms. Listen here. AKA was shot dead on February 10  in Durban. His team have taken it upon themselves to ensure  his magnum opus album is received in a manner AKA would have wanted. T-Effect co-CEO and AKA’s co-manager Nhlanhla “Nivo” Ndimande shared  insight on the making of the album. “It’s been a two-year process working on this album, from him giving us the vision and j telling us what exactly he wanted to do. It was tough in the beginning because we were like, ‘Wait, you want to mix country music, maskandi and hip-hop? How does that even make sense?' But as the music began to take shape, AKA’s grand vision became clearer and clearer. What AKA wanted to do was create an album the people of SA could embrace and cherish. As he’s done throughout his career by carrying the flag with him wherever he went, the Supa Mega wanted to create an album that sounded like home — an album for the masses of the country.” During the album’s stunning intro, AKA makes several references to  legendary South African moments including Sphiwe Tshabalala’s opening goal at the 2010 Fifa World Cup. He also pays homage to iconic local musical pioneers  Zakes Bantwini, Johnny Clegg, Skwatta Kamp and Khuli Chana, and refers to proudly South African beverage Oros and potjiekos. It’s all in the spirit of patriotism and celebrating South Africa. The first session for the album was with enowned BET Award-winner Sjava and Mass Country co-executive producer, Zadok. Nivo said: "It was during these sessions the team started to understand the sonic direction that would come to life during countless recording sessions across the country over the past two years. Throughout this process, producers like Oriah, Fdeeezus and Christer helped make the grand vision concise and cohesive. "While they followed a similar process and flow to that of previous albums, like 2018’s stunning Touch My Blood, the entire team also incorporated new ways of producing an album. "The first big camp was recorded at a house in Mooi River. There’s something he said a lot during these sessions. He kept saying he was trying to do something he’s never done before, so he needed everybody on the team to do something they’d never done before. With his direction, the team was able to produce just that. Apart from Mooi River and his Johannesburg base, they also held a recording camp in Vanderbijlpark. "The last song recorded on the project was Company featuring Nigerian pop and Afro beats star KDDO, who AKA previously collaborated with on Fela In Versace. Company was recorded in Los Angeles last month as they wrapped up the album. "Rap star Blxckie features on two songs on the album, Dangerous and Ease. “Kiernan and I went to their studios  to vibe with the guys about two years ago. "For Dangerous  AKA reached out to Blxckie on his own accord at a later point and got Nadia Nakai to lace a verse too. The result is an infectious, melodious cut that combines AKA and Nadia’s rap smarts with Blxckie’s unique vocal range. "AKA has always had an uncanny ability to bring out the best in his collaborators. Many have dubbed Nasty C and Khuli Chana’s respective verses as the most outstanding of their careers to date (which says a lot when you look at their incredible careers)." Nivo credited this to AKA’s rare musicality and storied background as a producer. “I remember with Emtee, half of that verse Kiernan wrote with him. Kiernan’s pushing him through the session like, ‘No, do it this way, do it that way’. He’s always had a vision. He always knew what he wanted, and he was able to get that out of people.” One of the standout songs on the project, Everest, is one of the first songs AKA started working on with the project. Nivo recalled how, two weeks after Anele Tembe’s funeral, as he was walking to AKA’s house  and  was surprised to hear music. “I’m like what’s going on, has this guy finally connected his studio? As I walk, I look and see that Kiernan had his studio set up in the garden and he was busy chopping up that sample repeatedly.” They then set up a session with AKA’s band to start enhancing the skeleton he’d put together. “That song to me was capturing Kiernan at his lowest emotionally but showing his creativity the most.” The album is undeniably one of the best of AKA’s sprawling career and sets a new benchmark for South African music. Poetically, in true Supa Mega style, AKA went out with a bang. “It’s crazy for me to say this, but I think spiritually Kiernan knew t this was his last project,” said Nivo. “Him adding Last Time and making it the first song on the album speaks volumes. His dad used to play the original Last Time that he referenced. So, it was like a ‘Let’s do this thing one more time guys’. That’s why I’m like, spiritually he kind of knew. Kiernan’s never submitted an album so early in his life. Bhovamania was submitted at 9pm for a midnight drop. Spiritually, he knew, even if he didn’t know consciously.”