The fight against rhino poaching is yielding results as incidents decreased in the Kruger National Park by 40% in 2022 compared to the previous year. A total of 124 rhino were killed  in the park last year  and there were no incidents  in other national parks. “The steady decline in rhino poaching in national parks is related to the  war that has been waged by our  anti-poaching  personnel and a comprehensive dehorning programme,  forestry, fisheries and environment affairs minister Barbara Creecy said. But  poaching  has shifted to KwaZulu-Natal, which saw 244  incidents last year. Most of these, 228,  were  in provincial parks and 16 were  in private game reserves. Private owners lost 86 rhino across the country, but the Hluhluwe iMfolozi Park in KZN has been hard hit, Creecy said. “This year’s outcome shows  collaboration between conservation authorities, the  South African Police Service, revenue authorities and international agencies work. We believe  if provincial authorities in KwaZulu-Natal follow our model they will be able to significantly curb rhino poaching in  provincial parks before it is too late.” Last year saw  many  arrests and prosecutions  by police, the Hawks,  South African National Parks (SANParks) and customs officials, and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Arrests totalled 132, with 49 in KZN, 23 in the Skukuza area and 60 in  Limpopo. Twenty-six rhino horn traffickers and 13 other people were  arrested for money laundering and bribing rangers. These arrests were as a result of a collaboration between the department,  police and  NGOs and included syndicate members  focusing  on KZN. The NPA  established an environmental working group to  co-operate with provinces on wildlife trafficking cases and to identifying repeat offenders. “As part of continued efforts to ensure the survival of  rhino,  SANParks is identifying suitable safe habitats  for the introduction of new rhino communities,” said Creecy. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.