In the world of  Architecture with a capital A, to be invited to exhibit at the Venice Architecture Biennale is a big deal. Every second year this fantastical city plays host to a profoundly fascinating exhibition  that attempts to answer the urgent question of how we live now through the prism of the built world. This year the 18th Architecture Biennale (which runs from May 20 through November) is curated by Lesley Lokko (OBE), a Scottish-Ghanaian architect and novelist. She is its  first black curator and the fourth woman to apply her mind to this  creative showcase. This week she announced the line-up — and the title, “The Laboratory of the Future” —  which for the first time in the history of the exhibition focuses on Africa and its  diaspora, and so represents a radical departure from the dominant narrative in this field. Which is why I am meeting Kate Otten, whose much-lauded practice has been invited to exhibit. We are lunching in Mpho  Phalane’s delightful  Food, I Love You restaurant at The Old Fort in Braamfontein, which forms part of the Constitution Hill complex and is one of the many public projects Kate and her namesake firm have had a hand in. The sensitive and interesting engagement with the historical space  sets the tone for our discussion. We could not be lunching in a more apt architectural representation of the nuanced response to context and history that Kate has been pursuing since she opened her  practice  after graduating  in the 1980s. Mpho’s delicious take on South African and African flavours is presented in a daily harvest table. In the background, adding to the creative spirit,  is the work going on for her collaborative project to create jars of deliciousness for  retail sales. The evocative smells of  spices being ground up keep us in happy sensory overload as we discuss Kate’s path to architecture. She was always toying with the idea of pursuing her first love — classical guitar —  but an inspired period of working with Muhammad  Mayet as a student, particularly  a project building mosques using adobe,  ignited a lifetime passion for the artisanal and the deep font of local knowledge. It put her on an unusual path for a young woman fresh out of architecture school —  establishing her own practice in the male-dominated, politically stultifying environment of the time. She describes it as  a bid to follow her own vision and build opportunities for fellow professionals who were marginalised. It’s a way of working that  jibes with the vision behind the curatorial choices for the Biennale. “It’s an idea that you’ve never seen before. It’s not all the usual suspects and the huge practices, but very specifically Africa and the diaspora, and more broadly the Global South, with a strong focus on small- to medium-sized practitioners. We don’t all practise in that standard way or historic way that everybody used to. “It’s an incredible honour to be selected to participate.” To see her name  at the announcement was “amazing”. Kate’s vision of how architecture is  directly embedded in our everyday life is galvanising: “What I think is amazing about the possibility of architecture is how it can influence every single person’s life, how they feel about themselves, how they experience their day.” I see her point as we sit in a bricks-and-mortar reminder of how  a place that  was a wound  can now also function as a balm for the  spirit. “The work that I have done has always involved and engaged with the people who are directly engaged with the process. The client, the end user and the people who make the material, and really focused on how those materials are used. “I have always been interested in how you can take very ordinary, inexpensive materials and use them in interesting ways and with a deep commitment to craft, and how you can use it to make extraordinary architecture.” In her world, bricklayers and their bricks are  the medium through which so much can be expressed and valued and reimagined. “There are amazing things that you can do. If you engage with that process.” She does not have favourite children but is quite partial to her current work at Wits University, where she is  excited about the  possibilities for reimagining the planetarium —  such an iconic building in the Johannesburg urban imagination — as a multidimensional projection space that amplifies its original role. “So many people I speak to have personal memories of the planetarium from childhood.” It is this humancentric approach that is now firmly in focus for  the Architecture Biennale. “I think  that connection with  the emotional side, or the emotive nature of space, is incredibly important. And hence the connection to the people for whom we work. And that’s what I was trying to say earlier about the way we work, where we don’t have a one-size-fits-all. “But there’s a process that we follow that is quite inquiring, and that’s because we are curious and we experiment. And I think that is very clear when I design for myself,  because I think it gives you an opportunity to be quite experimental  — to be the guinea pig.   And it’s Paris [her partner] and Paloma [their daughter]  who suffer.”