Moja Love's decision to part ways with Uyajola 9/9 presenter Molemo “Jub Jub” Maarohanye has drawn sharp  reactions, with some welcoming the move and others claiming the channel was letting go of a good host. A source confirmed Jub Jub's departure to TshisaLIVE, explaining the media personality's contract is up in March but there is no intention to extend his stay. Moja Love shared a statement with TshisaLIVE, saying Jub Jub was never a permanent employee and could not be fired by the channel. “Jub Jub is an independent contractor and therefore cannot be dismissed as he is not a permanent employee of the channel. Moja Love is also not at liberty to discuss the contents of his contract as it is confidential and of a privileged nature” said head of Moja TV Channels Bokani Moyo. Jub Jub's time on the show has been shrouded in controversy, with the star suspended in 2021 amid sexual assault claims. His conduct and comments on the show have also sparked calls for boycotts, while his appointment was questioned after his culpable homicide conviction. His departure sparked debate, with some claiming it was a long time coming. Others said his personality was the perfect fit for the channel. According to City Press, Moja Love's founder and CEO Aubrey Tau gave Jub Jub an ultimatum to apologise to Kelly Khumalo last year for allegedly insinuating she used “muti". A statement shared by the channel at the time stated Jub Jub had apologised and had done what was required. Speaking to TshisaLIVE, a source revealed  Jub Jub recently issued a letter of demand after not being paid his January salary amid a public fallout with his former business partner Keabetswe Mokoena. The two were planning the Moses Kotane Festival  expected to take place at Moruleng stadium on December 3 and 4 but the show was later cancelled. The source said Jub Jub was set to contest the matter in court. Attempts by TshisaLIVE to get comment from Jub Jub's legal representative, Terrence Baloyi of Baloyi-Ntsako Attorneys, were unsuccessful at the time of publishing this article. An update will be included once received.