Opposition parties in the eThekwini metro council have questioned the  influence the National Freedom Party's (NFP) Zandile Myeni will  have as  deputy mayor  after her election on Friday. The NFP has only one seat in the council  but Myeni garnered 127 of  209 votes during Friday’s special council meeting. The IFP’s Mduduzi Nkosi received 81 votes. Myeni replaced Abantu Batho Congress (ABC) president Philani Mavundla as chairperson of the bloc of smaller parties. Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda retained his position by the same margin in a vote of no confidence. Imtiaz Syed of the Active Citizens Coalition questioned  whether Myeni  would have the  support to  oppose the ANC in the executive committee. “Our  concern is that if the ANC has  given up a seat in the  executive committee to Zandile, who has one seat in the council, the question is, is she  a deployee of the ANC and does she have to  toe the ANC line? Or can she work in her own way to fulfil the role and responsibility  she has as a councillor to provide services to the city? It takes a lot of political will and political know-how  to fill that position,” he said. “What has the NFP done to be  given that seat? They only have one seat in this council, so how many people does she have behind her to support her? So, what we see is not  what is happening. We have to speak to the things in reality. Is it a power hungry person? Absolutely. That’s how we see her, because she doesn’t have the  essence of what the community  needs.” ActionSA’s Zwakele Mncwango said Myeni  would  hold the position  in name only, but the "true power"  would remain with the ANC and the EFF. The ANC  would "drown her input" if they chose to and  the EFF  would be the biggest benefactors in that “alliance”. “What influence is she going to have with one seat? That is  a drop in the ocean, they can  ignore her as long as they have the EFF  on their side. Whether she agrees with them or not is immaterial.  So she  becomes a puppet deputy mayor  because they won't  listen to her because she doesn't have support,” he said. “They will be controlled by the the EFF because it has numbers.  Even the budget cannot be passed without the EFF." Nkosi  shared similar sentiments. “Just wait and you will see why the EFF is voting with the ANC. Soon the EFF will be chairing a committee, so it's not about  principles, it's about 'what are you giving to me',” he said. “To have someone who is new in local government, who does not understand issues, is a challenge. You have never heard her  debating issues in  council meetings.  You need, in that office, someone who will be strong, who will tell the mayor if he's  steering the city in a wrong direction.” However, Canaan Mdletshe, NFP secretary-general,  disagreed. “Myeni is an independent thinker who will not be shy to express her views. We don't expect her to be a stooge or  be there to take orders from anyone in the council. We expect her to make sure  she represents the citizens of eThekwini ...  we don't think she will  be swayed  for whatever reason,” he said. “Our councillor is there at the behest of citizens and the other parties excluding the ANC. So we don't think it will reach a stage where the ANC will force her to support them in decisions  taken in the council. We expect her to be a deputy mayor who will use her position to advance the needs of citizens. We don't know what portfolio she will be assigned to, but whatever it is, she will not  be there to be a 'trophy' deputy mayor,” he said. Kaunda also supported Myeni’s  election. “We need to ensure stability because  investors find themselves  confused whenever they see changes in the leadership of the council, so there must be stability in  government leadership and administrative leadership. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.