Government’s decision  not to grant a special provincial official funeral for slain rapper Kiernan “AKA” Forbes has sparked fierce debate. The 35-year-old rapper was assassinated outside a popular Florida Road, Durban  restaurant  last Friday night. Celebrity chef and author Tebello “Tibz” Motsoane was also killed in the shooting. Gauteng premier Panyaza Lesufi had pledged to help the star’s family with “necessary assistance” to make sure the rapper was given a fitting farewell, but on Thursday he confirmed President Cyril Ramaphosa  denied the request for a special provincial official funeral. His office said Lesufi  visited the Forbes family  to inform them of the decision. The decision drew mixed reactions  across Mzansi, with many sharing the good work AKA did for the country, both locally and overseas, and said he was deserving of the honour. Others claimed Ramaphosa was right to “put his foot down” and not  grant official funerals  for every famous person who dies. Lesufi said the provincial government would  honour AKA by providing law enforcement personnel, a gravesite at Heroes Acre Cemetery and a flag for his casket. “We feel  a person of AKA’s stature must receive some form of honour, and we want to clarify  it is not a financial contribution. We will drape the coffin and provide a gravesite at Heroes Acre Cemetery with flags flying at half-mast. We will ensure his funeral is befitting.” A memorial service for AKA will be held  today at the Sandton Convention Centre ahead of a private funeral service tomorrow. The memorial will be streamed online with free tickets available to ensure capacity is met. Tickets were quickly sold out, with only 1,500 issued. The family urged people not to show up at the venue if they did not have a ticket. “Megacy, thank you for your overwhelming response to the Supa Mega’s celebration of life. All tickets have been fully subscribed and no more tickets will be allocated or issued. Please be reminded that anyone who does not have a ticket can  be a part of this experience by joining via livestream,” read a statement shared on AKA’s social media accounts.