The Mpumalanga co-operative governance and traditional affairs  (Cogta) department says it is on high alert and has urged residents to stay indoors and avoid crossing flooded bridges during heavy rainfall. Earlier this week, the department's national counterpart declared a national state of disaster after Mpumalanga, the Eastern Cape, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, the Northern Cape and North West suffered floods and heavy rainfall in recent weeks. On Thursday five workers contracted to Transnet narrowly escaped death when their truck was swept away while trying to cross a bridge in Mbombela. Provincial Cogta MEC Mandla Msibi said the state of disaster would “enable an intensive and co-ordinated response to the  floods  affecting the province”. “Torrential rains continue to fall across the province, resulting in widespread damage to infrastructure such as houses, roads, schools and healthcare facilities. A number of houses were flooded, others were roofless and some collapsed. “Nkomazi  municipality is the hardest hit area and remains the primary focus for assistance as there are many families affected,” Msibi said. Houses were  reported to have been submerged and families have been  displaced in Mbombela. According to Msibi, the provincial public works, roads and transport department was  assessing the extent of  damaged roads and upgrading some where necessary. The MEC  expressed gratitude for “the invaluable contributions and donations from all stakeholders, in particular  Gift of the Givers.” He warned people against land invasions and poor workmanship  by service providers, as he said those were major contributors that worsen flooding incidents. Msibi  called on  municipalities to enforce  bylaws and work closely with traditional leaders to curb land invasions and ensure credible service providers are appointed to do the work. The department said it remained on “full alert” amid a warning of heavy rainfall this weekend and would continue to provide the public with updated early warning alerts. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.