Disgruntled public service workers on Monday  said they will   demonstrate  at government departments  this week as they intensify their fight for wage increases. The workers are not happy with the unilateral implementation of  a wage increment of 3%. On Monday,  workers  gathered at the department of public service & administration (DPSA) offices in Pretoria,  amid a heavy police presence. “Somebody leaked the information to the employer that we would be going to DPSA and  we were met with a huge police presence,” said Popcru co-ordinator Sebuti Masemola.  “We will  be demonstrating every day. We will pick one department, but will not disclose which one. We will just rock up at a department, especially national offices, and do our demonstrations,”  said Masemola. Workers would  intensify their  protests after the mass demonstration  in November 2022. “We are  not happy about the unilateral implementation of the wage increment of 3%. We are also not happy about the manner in which the employer is  ignoring what  was done in 2022/2023 and wants to  enter into negotiations for 2023/2024 without solving the impasse of 2022/2023,” he said. He was adamant  they would not stop demonstrations until their demands were met, “We will not be deterred by employers' tactics of trying to divide us as labour. We are  going to fight for 2022/2023 because if we are not going to do that it's simple; this  wage negotiation  the employer wants to conduct, it will just be ticking the boxes, a PR exercise. If we are not going to agree with the employer, who has unilaterally implemented a 3% [increase] in 2022/2023, what will stop them doing it for 2023/2024?  It's like the end of collective bargaining.” Masemola said workers  demanded a  10%  increase. “We still demand the R2,500 for housing, we still demand the insourcing of community healthcare workers.  We still demand an increase in the  danger allowance. We still demand the filling of vacant funded posts,” he said. The DPSA said  it operated without  disruptions despite the presence of  protesters. “The position of government remains that of no work, no pay and where there is service delivery disruption law enforcement will step in to ensure  services are rendered to citizens uninterrupted,” said Moses Mushi of the DPSA. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.