Tshwane speaker Murunwa Makwarela has stuck to his guns regarding the mayhem caused by former mayor Randall Williams, who plunged the city into chaos by submitting two different letters of resignation last week. On Monday, the speaker's office confirmed  they have sought legal opinion which  nullified the second letter, which amended the effective date of resignation from February 13 to February 28. Makwarela said  the reason behind the varying of the effective resignation date was to ensure the work of the mayoral committee would not be affected. “I noted the concern raised by opposition parties of council regarding the confusion caused by the two resignation letters submitted by Randall Williams, due to the  interpretations of the validity of the resignation after the issuing of the second letter. “In ensuring good governance, and that this sensitive matter received the attention it deserves in an objective and professional manner, I requested the office of the city manager to furnish me with an external legal opinion on the issue of the two letters.” He said the legal opinion confirmed the first letter received from the embattled Williams was valid and therefore the resignation took effect on the same day, declaring the amended date and second letter  unlawful. The speaker was accused of “playing both sides” by initially accepting the amended resignation letter, and later appeasing disgruntled opposition by taking legal opinion which nullifies his initial position. However, Makwarela  denied  he played a part in the chaos  to create a soft landing for his ambition to succeed Williams and take over the reins of the mayoral seat, denying  he would  vie for the position. “Cope  [Makwarela's  party] only holds one seat. Whether this single seat can warrant those ambitions, I don't know. We did not contest for the position of speaker. It is the coalition agreement that resulted in my occupation of this office, and we are playing within that particular lane as prescribed by the coalition agreement,” said the speaker. Resulting from the absence of a mayoral committee and mayor, the speaker admitted  the stalling would have adverse effects on important reports in the city that needed to be tabled before a council. “The most important part of the annual report was the auditor-general's report, which was adverse in its opinion. According to the law, the speaker must  ask for public participation for   60 days and, as things stand, the report has to be rescinded by council. “We have  postponed and cancelled previous council meetings and were hoping  on Thursday we'd be able to table the reports. However, as things stand, we don't have a mayor and according to the rules and orders of council, the mayor is supposed to submit reports to council for consideration. We have to wait until we can do this,” said Makwarela. The speaker said regarding the adjustment budget that also needed to be processed by council, it was urgent  that council have a sitting so the city would have enough in its coffers to last until the end of the financial year. “As far as the budget is concerned, we are at the mid-term and almost on the other side. Our financial year ends on  June 30, so  without the budget to finish the last quarter of our year there wouldn't be service delivery. It is of prime importance the adjustment budget is considered and approved,” said the speaker. Makwarela  responded to allegations that he  would be booted out of the speaker's office due to  unhappiness over how he dealt with the resignation saga. “Let them proceed. Motions of no confidence are normal, but they cannot be dished out from pettiness. “They are welcome. We are not threatened by a motion of no confidence. It is quite distasteful and disgusting when a motion comes from your coalition partners.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.