The ANC Women’s League in eThekwini region has accused  political analyst Xolani Dube of organising an illegal match to the  premier’s house. A group of about 100 people marched to the home of premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube at the weekend. The  provincial government has ordered an investigation into alleged threats and intimidation, saying  the group appeared to be well-organised and gathered outside the premier's house. “This gender-based violence was perpetrated by members of a grouping called Umsinsi Wokuzimilela over the weekend. It is a well-known fact that this grouping was founded by a  political analyst Xolani Dube of Xubera Institute. The circulating posters and footage shows  the target was our member and premier. There are broader psychosocial implications for such a reckless march,” said the ANCWL. The matter has also been brought to the attention of the South African National Editors Forum and  media houses. “The illegal march to the home of a female leader, who is a widow, is clear evidence of daily threats faced by women in positions of authority,” it said. TimesLIVE contacted Dube who chose  not to comment. President Cyril Ramaphosa has wished Dube-Ncube and her family well after “this harassment” and condemned  the action. “We must condemn and resist all attempts by anyone to render our society lawless and chaotic. The Bill of Rights in our constitution affirms that everyone has inherent dignity and the right to have their dignity respected and protected, as well as the right to be free from all forms of violence from either public or private sources. These rights apply to every citizen, including elected leadership or public officials who choose to serve our nation and their families,” said Ramaphosa. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Brig Jay Naicker confirmed to TimesLIVE  a case of intimidation and trespassing has been opened. He said  the protesters dispersed peacefully. Investigations are under way into the motive of the protest and  why  it was held at a private residence, said Naicker. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.