American comedian and actor Kevin Hart is looking to be visible and embrace the culture of South Africa while he is in the country. His last visit to Mzansi was in 2016 where he received the name, Mpho. On his return, having had a “tremendous amount of change” in himself and his career, he has big plans. Visiting  schools, dining  with the Nelson Mandela Foundation, kick-starting his Reality Check comedy tour at SunBet Arena, Time Square, Pretoria, on February 17 are among the many activities on his itinerary. “SA is not only beautiful but the people are dope. The energy is exactly what one of the states would be. The story of your truth is not told enough and its because people don't come and embrace the world of. “Once I came and I arrived, I made it a priority to say, not only am I going to come back, but I will be a part of the good story. I'll be a part of that good the conversation me allowing the name Mpho to live on is a way for me to embrace the culture and the people because it was given from a place of love,” he said during a press conference. On Thursday, Kevin premiered his  movie Die Hart, coming to cinemas on February 22 and streaming on Prime from February 24, at Montecasino in Fourways Johannesburg. In the movie that co-stars multi award-winning actor John Travolta, Kevin plays a version of himself where he goes on a death-defying quest to become an action star. “I want a global IP, I want something that can perform internationally and to do that you need international faces, you need people that people are familiar with.” The 43-year-old has been in the entertainment industry for more than two decades, and feels he's done it all. His  focus  is to use his production company Hartbeat to be of service to others. “The Hartbeat brand reflects who and what I am. Hartbeat is  responsible for navigating in a space that not many can. What I want to do I  can do, it's all up to my liking. I have no will or want for my star to shine brighter ... I think I've done it all. It's about figuring out ways to amplify others and other relationships.” Actress Simz Ngema, comedian Celeste Ntuli, media personality Moshe Ndiki and YouTuber Lasizwe Dambuza were some of the celebrities who graced the black carpet at Kevin's star-studded premiere. See the snaps below: