A 14-year-old boy  was one of two people who  died in a spate of shootings in  Westbury, Johannesburg, in what community members believe is retaliation attacks  after the murder of  an alleged gang leader. The alleged leader of  the Fast Guns gang, Keenan Ebrahim, was  shot dead on Thursday in Constantia Kloof. . Details surrounding the shooting of the 14-year-old remain sketchy but  community members  TimesLIVE spoke to say the boy was  hit by a stray bullet while walking in the street. “We've been unable to leave our homes since Thursday because bullets are  flying everywhere. The gang is angry about the murder of their leader and I think they want to show the other gangs  they are still in control even when their leader is killed,”  a resident said. Another resident  said the situation was tense since Ebrahim's murder. “We don't have peace since Keenan's murder. Even in his death he still manages to terrorise us.  I  wish I had a choice and means to move somewhere because this is not how life is supposed to be.” . Tensions  are high in Westbury and surrounding areas. On Saturday, City Power announced  it was withdrawing  services in the area due to increasing violence. Sophiatown police station commander Brig Alfred Ndebele on Monday  told reporters  police  are on high alert and  doing their best to restore  calm. Ndebele said  police recover 12 unlicensed firearm in the area in February, Police and metro police were on the ground and working together to  restore peace. But residents of Westbury have little hope  the police will bring  change, with some saying  the latest shooting happened while  police units  were in the area. Ndebele said: “Members can't be everywhere. Like today's [Monday] incident, within a minute, they were at the scene.” The problem was  community members who have potential leads were reluctant  to come forward and give statements to police. Earlier, TimesLIVE spoke to councillors in the area, all of whom  declined to comment  for fear  of their safety. “We appeal  to the  community to come forward as witnesses. If they don't trust my police officers they can call the provincial office, where there is an anti-gang unit,” Ndebele said. He would not  be drawn  on speculation  about the reason for the shootings. “I can't conform if this is retaliation attacks but our crime intelligence [unit] is working on that.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.