Citizens venting their frustration at co-operative governance  and traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma  sparked debate on how politicians and  government officials are treated. Dlamini-Zuma was escorted out of Komani (formerly Queenstown) in the Eastern Cape on Monday after residents cut short her visit to hear their grievances. TimesLIVE reported residents had written to the minister to ask her to  dissolve the Enoch Mgijima municipality. She met  traditional and religious leaders, businesses and  municipal officials, but when providing feedback to the community she was told to leave. Dlamini told the angry crowd  she could not address the issues herself but would  raise them at a cabinet meeting. Protesters heckled  her and she was escorted  out. An ANC Women's League leader  was confronted by angry protesters in the same area last month. The incidents drew mixed reactions, with some  saying citizens should have been more civil and engaged with  politicians. Others said  politicians had no regard for residents and should know the frustration citizens  feel  about failed service delivery. Department  spokesperson Lungi Mtshali said residents had a right to be angry but processes should be followed. “The community was not happy with the process part of it and said she [minister Dlamini-Zuma] must go to cabinet but they would burn the town. Disbanding a municipality cannot be done on the basis of a letter. “But she spent the whole day listening to them to develop rapport. Obviously, when people have been living in such conditions for too long, they are not always rational and we accept that. They don’t want to hear about the process but want to hear solutions. “We understand their frustration, and we were not deterred by the narrative that [the minister] was chased away. She spoke to them and they didn’t want to hear about the process.  You can tell there is genuine frustration, but we have to be the ones who guide people. The minister can’t go and say she will dissolve the municipality based on a letter.” Mtshali said the minister would return to the community after speaking  to cabinet. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.