Heavy rain in parts of Mpumalanga this week has  led to the closure of four camps in the Kruger National Park (KNP). The Lower Sabie, Crocodile Bridge, Biyamiti and Talamati camps are  not accessible due to flooding. After Thursday's update on  road closures, the South African National Parks (SANParks) said some  camps and roads in the southern part of the KNP remain  closed. KNP acting  GM for commercial operations Hein Grobler said guests arriving at Talamati camp  on Friday have been moved to Satara camp. “Management is in  communication with guests in these camps. No threat or danger to lives has been experienced in the park and we will try our best to continue to keep  guests in the affected camps safe,” he said. SANParks has also advised guests not to use  gravel roads and  stay on  tar. “Guests are further advised not to open or travel on  roads which have been closed and not to cross  low-water bridges as the dangers of being washed away remain high.” Technical  and ranger services have been assessing access and are working to find  solutions. “More heavy rain is expected today [Friday]. The teams will continue with assessments of  affected camps and roads and updates will be communicated through social media as well as in person to the affected guests,”  said KNP spokesperson Ike Phaahla. Access gates into  the KNP are open, except Crocodile Bridge. Phaahla said the route directly from Lower Sabie to Skukuza remains inaccessible, while travelling between Satara and Skukuza or Lower Sabie is not possible. “Guests are advised not to take chances and leave  camp without checking with  management and reception about the status of the roads they plan to travel on. The rain forecast for today [Friday] remains high, caution should be exercised at all times on the roads,” Phaahla said. “Guests  who have bookings in the four affected camps can contact those camps directly or central reservations for assistance to  adjust their bookings while the camps  are inaccessible. “Guests  who need to postpone  bookings  will be given the option of a date change or credit on their profile to use  later.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.