South Africans disenchanted by poor governance and service delivery failures should turn to activism instead of withholding tax payments, according to the head of the country’s revenue agency. “My message to those who believe  withholding taxes is the best response is that it would simply aggravate the problem,” South African Revenue Service (Sars) commissioner Edward Kieswetter said on Tuesday. “Let’s get off our seats and let’s be activists to work towards building this society. If this government doesn’t deliver, they shouldn’t be in power.” His comments come as the ruling ANC and President Cyril Ramaphosa face criticism over record power cuts. State-owned  Eskom, which has been struggling to meet demand for about 15 years, imposed blackouts for more than 200 days in 2022 and every day so far this year. Severe power outages are also affecting the supply of water in some of the nation’s biggest cities. The crisis is forcing the country’s affluent minority to turn to the private sector, with increased demand for backup power, rainwater harvesting and storage solutions by businesses and homes. The tax agency and National Treasury are engaging on potential relief measures for those  who opt for costly alternatives to Eskom, Kieswetter said. Many of the country’s wealthy and middle-class citizens also use private education and healthcare that competes with some of the best in the world, while most of the population relies on dilapidated public systems. That’s indicative of the nation’s status as the most unequal  country for which data is available, according to the Thomas Piketty-backed World Inequality Lab. The media has speculated  the country is facing a tax revolt because of growing frustration about decaying infrastructure such as roads, calls to widen the welfare net while raising taxes, and  government’s sluggish approach to turning around an economy and state institutions  hollowed out during an era of state corruption. Welfare recipients outnumber personal income taxpayers, and while it’s not sustainable to have about 30-million grant recipients, it’s the only safety net that keeps people from “absolute destitution”, Kieswetter said. Studies show  the income disparity would make it a good candidate for a wealth tax, but authorities believe growing compliance would reduce the need for additional levies and would rather bring duties in line with  the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development rates instead of increasing the burden on taxpayers, he said. Finance minister Enoch Godongwana is due to present a budget that outlines the government’s spending and revenue framework for the next three years on February 22. The tax office noted “increased abuse of the tax compliance system” with economically active residents filing zero income or inaccurate returns, the National Treasury said in February last year. The agency is doing everything it can to improve compliance and meet revenue collection estimates in spite of power outages so as not to compromise the wellbeing of future generations by increasing the state’s borrowings and debt service costs, Kieswetter said. The turnaround of  Sars is one of Ramaphosa’s biggest institutional reform successes to date. The office, under Kieswetter, has supported the state’s balance sheet by improving compliance and overshooting revenue collection estimates for two consecutive years. More stories like this are available on bloomberg.