The 2023 awards season has been quite tepid. It is rare  we find ourselves  continuing to discuss the influence of stars  in the front rows of fashion week shows more than the highly influential work seen on red carpets. Is street style slowly taking over the gravitas of what our stars wear, or is there  a reason to keep believing  in red carpets? Take a look at our best and worst dressed list for it all. Wayman + Micah are quickly becoming an untouchable duo when it comes to the trajectory of Jodie Turner-Smith’s style. This is bound to add a halo effect on  most  brands  she works with. Jodie recently dominated the fashion week cycle with a call back to modest hats, like the fez pair she wore and even the dramatic styles seen with her look at the Harris Reed that may be a call back to the looks donned by Beyoncé and Lil Nas X by some. The teen sensation may have worn hearts on Heartstoppers but he was winning over fashion lovers  with this ensemble. The muscle tee would have worked with slim-fitted trousers and the same boots but everything shines with the boxy high-waisted pants he opted for instead. This is a great example of a star dressing to highlight the best parts of their body without having to go over the top to make a fashion statement. Remember when celebrities used to make statements on red carpets? That is certainly the case with Christina’s SAG Awards look. Becoming a memorable moment in a sea of boring gowns, she not only remixes a tuxedo dress with a train to boot but her cane was  emblazoned with “FU MS” in reference to her recent  multiple sclerosis diagnosis We also love the Doc Martens that  complement the look that matches the pair worn by her daughter. A good example of how to take on comfort without compromising on style. While she is pretty in pink, this look is a bit of a let-down from the seasoned red carpet star. The work of her stylist, Law Roach, the hair complements her dress and the breathtaking neckpiece but why is Zendaya wearing a dress best suited for stars with a soft and understated approach, like Issa Ray or Angela Basset? Bring back the era-defining moments  we are used to. Aunjanue is no stranger to using her fashion moments to convey a message, but this look falls flat due to its fit. The semi-sheer dress has so much going on it creates very little distinction between her neck and shoulders. Sneakers are becoming a very popular choice for male stars, but there is a much more stylish way to pull them off. This Kid Cudi look ends up coming off as amateur and reminiscent of a 2000s red carpet look for the Grammys. The sneakers do not complement anything he is wearing, from his nail polish to his suit. Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.