SETTING THE SCENE Zimbali, which translates as “valley of flowers” in isiZulu, is exactly what greets you once you pass through the estate’s top-notch security gate. On the other side is a sea of green, where a lush subtropical forest boasts milkwoods and indigenous plants; the distinctive sounds of more than 200 birds, including the magnificent crown eagle; and the ebb and flow of the Indian Ocean. A BIT OF HISTORY Built in 1996, the gated eco estate in Ballito on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast was billed as one of the country’s finest coastal resorts, offering second-home buyers an attractive holiday destination away from the hustle and bustle of city life. It was one of the first major developments in the seaside tourist town and, with its Asian architecture, manicured gardens, glorious golf course, pristine pools, private beach and two hotels, it has cemented itself as a go-to destination for  families and couples  looking for an upmarket resort experience. In 2021,  the Fairmont Zimbali Hotel, which was in business rescue, was bought by the Capital Hotels Group and relaunched as the Capital Zimbali after an extensive upgrade. THE HOTEL TODAY The resort’s aesthetic is opulent, modern and tasteful. Guests arrive to a  beautiful water feature, valet service,  porters and a double bank of receptionists. The glass walls ensure that the picturesque Indian Ocean is the first thing you see as you enter the hotel. The rooms include luxury ocean and garden vistas, family suites and apartments that can accommodate up to six people. The rooms are decadently plush. You could literally spend your time watching pods of dolphins frolic in the ocean while you  contribute to a strategy  session from your balcony. Alternatively, the hotel has meeting pods — soundproof rooms for one in the vast  reception area — that are perfect if you need quiet for a call or Teams meeting. There are also hi-tech spaces for in-person meetings, as well as conferences and events  for groups of 15 to 750 people. ON THE MENU Resort-style restaurants are famed for their buffet options and the hotel’s signature, The Copper Restaurant, leaves diners spoilt for choice at dinner and breakfast. There is something so appealing in seeing rows of breads, pastries and scones, fresh fruit and cheese boards in addition to cereals and cold meats — all honouring the adage that breakfast is the most important meal of the day. And for dinner, after supping on your choice of curries, roasts, pastas and beautiful salads, the dessert selection will leave you giddy with glee. For the more selective palate, the restaurant has a fine dining à la carte menu. Options include slow-cooked duck confit with Asian braised greens, saffron, orange creamed potatoes and anise jus; and grilled line fish topped with a prawn, toasted capers, creamy pomme purée and sauce beurre blanc. For those who love a vibrant dining experience, The Fire Room sushi and grill is a popular option with  guests. WHAT TO DO Guests have a wide range of experiences to choose from, such as golf,  going on a nature trail,  revelling in a sublime spa or simply the partaking of sundowners. Lovers of G&Ts will swoon at the new Inverroche Gin Academy, a three-hour tasting and master class where you can produce a  personalised 500ml bottle to take home. The hotel has two spectacular pools — one with a slide, which is enjoyed by  youngsters and the young at heart. Adjoining the pool is a kiddies' play area and adjacent to that is the Stingray Pool lounge, which whips up the most spectacular cocktails, making it ideal for parents to watch their offspring. A slight distance away is the adults' pool, which allows guests optimum serenity  while enjoying a massage on a shaded four-poster bed or a book and a cocktail on a comfy recliner. The pool leads to the tranquil Mangwanani spa, which has a comprehensive list of offerings. Environmentalists will relish the three trails, which range from moderate to difficult and promise birds, wildlife, lush vegetation and sea views. There is also a 4km mountain-bike trail. SPECIAL TOUCHES Luxurious gowns and slippers, Charlotte Rhys bath products and a Nespresso coffee station crack the nod for making guests feel valued. RATES Rates fluctuate based on occupancy. A test booking for a Saturday night in mid-March offered a luxury room for two at R6,030, including breakfast. Join La Famiglia and its membership programme and you qualify for up to 20% off. For more information or to book, visit their website or email reservations@thecapital.co.za • Naidoo was a guest of The Capital Zimbali