The  SA Weather Service (Saws) has issued a weather warning for  possible disruptive rain that might cause localised flooding in parts of Mpumalanga and Limpopo. Saws  forecaster Luthando Masimini said two weather warnings have been issued. “One is  a yellow level  2 for the western parts of Limpopo, the Lephallale, Thabazimbi area, as well as the eastern part of the  province. The warning is for disruptive rain that may lead to localised flooding of  roads and settlements, low-lying bridges.” Masimini said the warning extends to the Mpumalanga's lowveld and the eastern and southern highveld. “Looking at areas, including Belfast, Ermelo, Secunda as well as Piet Retief in the southeast parts of Mpumalanga, also extending into  northern  KwaZulu-Natal, looking into Newcastle, Pongola in the extreme north, going southwards into the Ulundi area,” he said. The second  is  a yellow level 4 warning for possible disruptive rain  and localised flooding of  settlements or roads, low-lying areas and bridges and localised damage to infrastructure which can be expected in the Eastern Cape. Affected municipalities mentioned were  Ntabankulu, Mbizana, Mbhashe, Mnquma,  Great Kei  and OR Tambo. Masimini said more rain is expected on Saturday and  isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers are  expected for the central, south and eastern parts of the country with widespread rain likely over the northern part of  Limpopo. On Sunday, isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers can be expected in the central and eastern parts and widespread rain  over the  Mpumalanga and Limpopo lowveld. Scattered to widespread showers and thundershowers are expected  on Friday over Gauteng, extending into  the eastern and southern parts of the country. The Western Cape is also expecting  scattered to widespread showers and thundershowers over the eastern interior  and the south coast. The western parts,  including Cape Town and Lambert's Bay,   can expect isolated showers and thundershowers  on Friday. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.