Patriotic Alliance leader Gayton McKenzie has called on police to ensure the country does not see a repeat of the Senzo Meyiwa murder probe in the Kiernan “AKA” Forbes case. AKA was gunned down outside a popular restaurant in Durban last Friday.  His lifelong friend,  celebrity chef Tebello “Tibz” Motsoane also died in the shooting. “I don’t know what happened. We can all just speculate and wait for the investigations,” said McKenzie. 'What I do know is that this story can get uglier. I’m asking the cops to meticulously investigate and to please avoid a Senzo repeat.” The Bafana Bafana goalkeeper was gunned down in 2014 in Vosloorus during an alleged house robbery at his then girlfriend Kelly Khumalo's house. His death has left many puzzled as to why his family has had to wait nearly a decade for answers regarding his murder. Senzo's murder trial was postponed to May after two of the five accused suspects changed their lawyer. Last week, EFF leader Julius Malema called on KwaZulu-Natal provincial commissioner of police Lt-Gen Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi to crack AKA's murder case. “Lt-Gen Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi, please crack it before the certified fool hijacks it for personal gratification and messes it up by arresting the wrong people for cameras,” said Malema. Two men have been identified as suspects in the case after CCTV footage of the incident was shared on social media. Police in KwaZulu-Natal said information at their disposal at this stage indicates AKA and Tibz were walking towards their vehicle from the restaurant when they were allegedly approached by two armed suspects who shot them at close range. “The suspects are reported to have fled from the scene on foot. Both victims were declared dead at the scene. The motive of the shooting is unknown at this stage and police investigations are ongoing,” said police. Police pleaded with anyone who might have information which can assist in the investigation and lead to the apprehension of the suspects to contact the nearest police station or Crime Stop on 08600-10111. Alternatively, tip-offs can be relayed via the MySAPS app. The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal called for a team of experienced ballistic experts and IT experts to analyse the footage. ANC KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said the party in the region noted the footage circulating on various social media platforms of alleged murderers of the late rapper. “The latest footage showing suspects shooting AKA and Tibz at close range warrants the deployment of a team of experienced ballistic experts to ensure the gathering of enough evidence and to carry spot examinations of the crime scene. IT experts must also be assigned to analyse the footage,” he said. Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.