A sighting of dolphins from a boat on a turquoise sea epitomises the wonder that Zanzibar evokes. Snorkelling in the waters off this Indian Ocean island is also a rare delight — it's teeming with life and the water clarity is exceptional. Swimming close to our hotel, the new   Emerald Zanzibar Resort & Spa in the northeast, and on a day excursion exploring the protected waters around the island with tour operator  Safari Blue ($80, about R1,300), we admired swathes of coral “fields” and brightly coloured reef fish; joked about the optics created by sea cucumbers; and  goggled at sea snakes weaving in the depths near the ocean floor. The Safari Blue tour included a swim in a lagoon shaded by mangroves,   the salt content  so high you bob around like a float if you stop swimming. We also docked at a sandbar for lunch and a browse at a little market. In the shallows, the starfish here are as big as your palm. As I was leaving Joburg, my sceptical partner had cautioned “don't drown”. But the onshore divemasters give even the weakest swimmers the opportunity to marvel at life under the water and snorkelling equipment is provided. Due to my inexperience, I was helped with buoyancy aids and guided on how to bite down on the  snorkel  (no inhaling of saltwater!) and avoid mask fogging. On land,  a smile could play on your face without your even realising it as your toes sift through the soft, fine sand and your mind idly calculates the variations of blue heading to the  horizon. The humidity is so intense, though, it will soon drive you back into the water, whether the sea or one of the several swimming pools at the resort. At the five-star resort, which opened in December, the rim pool overlooking the ocean quickly became a place to chat with fellow travellers while the garden pool area provided shade and an in-water bar. Guests stay on an all-inclusive basis, which is perfect since there is a great range of drinks, including a South African MCC sparkling wine, and delicious food on offer at the various restaurants — catering for seafood lovers (big thumbs up), carnivores, fans of Asian-styled cuisine and even gelato at a quaint ice-cream “shop”. I gravitated to the Beach Club Grill restaurant, where diners sit shielded from the sun with their toes in the sand. I scarfed down jumbo prawns, red snapper, fresh soups and pizzas replete with juicy toppings. The Aqua is the hotel's breakfast spot, which also provides lovely buffet-style meals for lunch and supper. Here, the seating is divided by intricate,  Arabic inspired wooden screens, which lend a sense of intimacy and, with fans overhead, help to cool the air.  I enjoyed  its wide variety of cuisines. The staff are always ready with a friendly  jambo (“hello” in  Swahili). Getting around the island is easy with tour operators running shuttles from the hotels. When we went exploring, we rode with Dege Aventures, which offered guides, Wi-Fi, air-conditioning and cool drinks as we travelled west to historic Stone Town for an all-day excursion on a dhow and a tour of a spice farm. Expect to spend at least 90 minutes on the spice tour, a great taste and scent sensation. An informative walk takes you through  plantations of nutmeg, cinnamon (the fresh bark is so fragrant), pepper (don't taste unless you have a cast-iron tongue) and cloves, which are a valuable export crop. There's also a lively demonstration of how to scale a coconut tree. Perfumes bottled on the farm (the coffee bean fragrance is a lovely surprise) and  packets of spices make affordable and unusual souvenirs. We enjoyed wandering the winding, narrow walkways of Stone Town, past people's homes and tiny shops with carved Arabic doors. The Anglican cathedral was a poignant stop. It was built on the site where the Oman sultanate once held slave auctions, and commemorates the horrors committed there. Outside is a haunting monument showing slaves in a pit, shackled together by chains around their necks. After a long day exploring, it's a pleasure to return to the luxury resort with its king-size beds, bathrobes to snuggle in, nightly turndown service and free Wi-Fi. Parents will surely enjoy that children have their own pool area sporting water jets, a climbing wall and other playground spoils. Activities are lined up to keep the little ones busy during the day, with evening events with dancers and musicians  for the adults  (no extra charge). As vast as it is, the resort is an adventure fit for couples, groups of friends and families. Zanzibar itself — affordable, easy to get to, and unforgettably beautiful — is a no-brainer for South Africans. Relaxation is guaranteed. • Saunders was a guest of tour operator AfricaStay and the Emerald Zanzibar Resort & Spa. Getting there: FlySafair flies direct between Johannesburg's OR Tambo and Zanzibar's international airport in 3.5 hours.  The resort is a 70-minute drive from the airport. Need to know: The resort: The Emerald Zanzibar Resort & Spa is a five-star, “deluxe all-inclusive” resort located in Muyuni Matemwe in the northeast. Sprawled across 10ha of beachfront land on a lagoon, it has 250 suites ranging from “Garden Junior” to the “Presidential Ocean Suite”. Sports facilities include two tennis courts, a padel court, gym. There is also a diving and watersports centre, a kids' club and a spa. The people of Zanzibar are predominantly Muslim and those we met, modest in attire and manner, came across as patient and good-natured. Apart from an intrinsic geniality and perhaps pride in Zanzibar's beauty, the incentive to cater to tourists is employment.  Zanzibari families are large (up to four wives are traditionally permitted), and many survive on home-grown crops on small plots. Tourism is a literal lifesaver, contributing 27% to Zanzibar's GDP and about 80% of its foreign-exchange earnings, according to the World Bank. The sector creates jobs for about 60,000 people. Our guide from Dege Adventures told us that tourism had helped the government fund free schooling. Zanzibar is rebounding from Covid-19 lockdowns, recording 323,000 visitors in the eight months to August in 2022, mostly from Europe with a strong French and Italian reach, boosted by recent investments in several upmarket hotels. With its goal being to increase the number of tourists to 800,000 by 2025, and operators such as AfricaStay popularising the region in SA, the potential is promising. The challenge is to spread the spoils and to grow tourism in a way that's sensitive to the environment (I did witness an unfortunate incident when a pair of dolphins were encircled by boats, their pilots all eager to get as close as possible to please their passengers). Zanzibar is hosting its first international tourism summit, The Z-Summit, on  February 23-24 to allow stakeholders to connect with international investors and travel agents. My hope is for the locals to grow the sector with a focus on protecting their treasures so that over-exploitation does not denude the natural beauty or culture. The onus is on tour operators to educate tourists, and for tourists to remember that other travellers will follow them. Spend seven nights at the Emerald Zanzibar Resort & Spa on an all-inclusive basis for R23,295 pps. The price includes: The price excludes a $1 per person per day government "infrastructure tax", payable to the hotel on checkout.  Book by February 15 2023 and quote the code AFR-STAY/ST to qualify. CONTACT: Call 011-592-9000, email sales@africastay.com or visit africastay.com. *All rates are subject to availability, currency/airfare increase and seasonal surcharge.