The phrase G.O.A.T is thrown around often but many might agree with Lerato Sengadi when she called rappers and hip hop artists HHP, ProKid, Riky Rick and AKA a few of Mzansi's greatest of all time. Taking to her Instagram timeline she expressed how losing the four was devastating to the industry and Mzansi. “Do you guys understand how much the game, the entertainment industry and the country as a whole has lost?! These men (who are all fathers) are: Icons. Legends. Innovators. Blueprints. GOATS. Pillars. Superstars... the list is endless!!!This is devastating! They are Irreplaceable! Wow! It’s so un-f**ken-real,” she wrote. AKA, 35, was shot dead on Florida Road, Durban, on February 10. He was laid to rest in a private ceremony. Mourning the loss of the rapper, Anatii posted a tribute on his Instagram timeline. “You were definitely a force to be reckoned with bro. we had many ups and downs and shared many beautiful moments together, some public and others very private. When we worked on BCWYWF it was a transformative period in our lives, being able to harness the power of forgiveness and focusing on the bigger picture and path God laid out for us.” Rikhado “Riky Rick” Makhado died aged 34 on February 23 2022 after taking his own life. Lesego Tlhabi was among celebrities who flooded social media with their tributes. She shared how she longed to see Riky again. “You are so missed and so so loved Makhado. I honestly don’t go very many days without saying about you. Luckily, because of your legacy and music, I get to hear you often but boy if I could just see you again, Lord knows what that would mean to me. For now all we have are stories and memories. I’m still heart sore but I'm going to keep saying, keep seeking for the joy.” Jabulani “HHP” Tsambo was 38 years old when he died in October 2018. In celebration of the rapper's birthday in 2021, Lerato released a single by HHP featuring amapiano star Focalistic, called Nkaofa. Speaking to TshisaLIVE, Lerato said her aim was to preserve HHP's legacy. “Being the custodian of his legacy means that it will always be treated with the dignity it deserves. Jabba and I were together for 10 years and married for three so I know him well and I'm very equipped to keep his legacy alive for as long as I'm alive.” Linda “ProKid” Mkhize died in August 2018 after suffering a seizure at the age of 37. AKA said ProKid had changed his life, and he spoke about the influence the late musician  had on his career. “There would be no charts to top, no deals to sign, no tours no nothing without Linda Mkhize and what he did for this industry & that’s the shit we got caught up in, too busy with our own nonsense to reach out to our own big brother and talk to him, sit with him. Appreciate him,” AKA tweeted at the time.