As Showmax's DAM makes a return for a second season, Pallance Dladla recalled his experience on set and spoke   about his South African Film and Television Awards-nominated role as Themba. What made you  come back to your role for season 2? Definitely this family. We met at the worst time. We shot the first season during Covid-19. A lot of people didn't know how the future was going to pan out. Somehow we ended up in Bedford in the Eastern Cape shooting this series, and something magical happened that resonates through the show. We became such a real family, the actors and the crew. I feel like there are going to be more incredible things that are going to happen in our industry if we build this family-based way of working. Also, season 1 ends on a cliffhanger so we knew  we had unfinished business. How do you describe DAM? It’s a psychological thriller that intertwines horror and fantasy. It's a rollercoaster More than anything else, it's a story about family, love and healing. How was the reaction to season 1? It was  embraced by all cultures, which was surprising for me. I found out  people  want refreshing stories. It's been incredible for me because this is a very new genre for South Africa. We are only starting to play with genres like psychological thrillers. What Alex [Yazbek, who wrote and directed DAM] did is take this very heavy subject matter and make it digestible for  people by using the genre. We shouldn’t underestimate our audiences. Our audiences are ready. Tell us about your character? I play uThemba. My character is almost like the moral compass for the audience. He has this purity. He's grounded, where with Yola's role this season there's a sense of disconnection. He realises the importance of his ancestry and that the values passed down by his forefathers are fundamental to humanity: values of love, family, forgiveness, community, and connection with nature, that we all belong in this ecosystem. He is challenged to honourably embrace these values and responsibilities, whatever the cost. The season 2 trailer is freaky. Was there anything that creeped you out this season? When the stunt man was on fire. I'm going to give you that, without context. That's the only clue. I do my own stunts, but to a certain level, not like that. So kudos for that man. The show was nominated for 11 Saftas and won two. Were you surprised? No, I was waiting for more. Like, let's take this to other festivals. Friends who are not from this country who’ve seen this, they're like, ‘ Gosh. What is this?’, so I want us to take it further. DAM season 2 is streaming on Showmax with new episodes on Thursdays until  March 23 2023.