Sbu Nkosi is back. Bulls coach Jake White has wasted no time to include the Springbok speedy winger to the starting line-up for the  United Rugby Championship (URC) clash against the Stormers at Loftus on Saturday. The 27-year-old 2019 Rugby World Cup winner returned to training last week after he missed out on action as he dealt with mental health issues. Nkosi was reported missing in December after he went awol for a few weeks and  was later found at his father’s house in Emalahleni in Mpumalanga. When he returned to training last week, Nkosi  declared  his confidence was back,  his vision  clear and he was ready to relaunch his once blossoming career. In his squad to take on the Stormers, White made minimal changes in the front, with a number of forced changes to the back. Though Nkosi will make a welcome return to the side, the Bulls will be without Springbok  wingers duo Canan Moodie and Kurt-Lee Arendse who have been rested. Another absentee is creative midfielder Johan Goosen, who is recovering from   shoulder surgery that is expected to rule him out of action for up to six weeks. Lock Jacques du Plessis is the only change in the forward pack from the match-day squad that lined up against Welsh side Scarletts. At the back, White has made a number of changes with Zak Burger and Chris Smith combining at half-back, and in the midfield Harold Vorster and Wandisile Simelane pair up as inside and outside centre’s respectively. Nkosi has slotted in at left-wing while Cornal Hendricks gets a run on the right with David Kriel shifting to full-back. Jan-Hendrick Wessels, Simphiwe Matanzima, Francois Klopper, Ruan Vermaak, Nizaam Carr, Embrose Papier, Morne Steyn and Lionel Mapoe will  have the opportunity  to run on from the bench. Steyn will run out for his 150th club game in Super Rugby and URC. The Blue Bulls also confirmed that more than 35,000 tickets have been sold and they expect a full house on Saturday for the north vs south derby. Bulls Team 1. Gerhard Steenekamp, 2. Johan Grobbelaar, 3. Mornay Smith, 4. Jacques Du Plessis, 5. Ruan Nortje (c), 6. Marco van Staden, 7. Cyle Brink, 8. Elrigh Louw, 9. Zak Burger, 10. Chris Smith, 11. Sbu Nkosi, 12. Harold Vorster, 13. Wandisile Simelane, 14. Cornal Hendricks, 15. David Kriel Subs: 16. Jan-Hendrick Wessels, 17. Simphiwe Matanzima, 18. Francois Klopper, 19. Ruan Vermaak, 20. Nizaam Carr, 21. Embrose Papier, 22. Morne Steyn, 23. Lionel Mapoe