Johannesburg's City Power has changed its staff shift  system, cutting out night shifts due to safety concerns  and  to maximise resources. City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena told TimesLIVE: “We have cut out night-shift work and the new model is based on 'four days in and  four days out' cycle.” He said the  the new system would cut   wastage  because there was little work to do at night. “The night-shift staff did not deal with as much demand as the day shift, resulting in strained resources and poor response during the day. “The number of attacks on personnel was heightened at night. The organisation also took a strategic decision to focus on medium- and high-voltage (these are area outages and mini-substation issues, for  example) at night. We are a customer-centric organisation that is constantly reviewing operations to make our services more accessible,” Mangena said. However,  they run a 24-hour essential service  and subcontractors only leave when they finish the job at hand, not necessarily at 6pm. “Internal operators work  at night and cannot abandon work because of time,” Mangena said. He  highlighted the added strain  on infrastructure  due to load-shedding, as the infrastructure was never meant to be switched on and off at short regular intervals. Mini substations, pole-mounted transformers and transformers often catch fire or fail  after load-shedding due to, among other things, overloading and  power surges. “Additionally,  increasing theft and vandalism is a major problem across the city and further affects replacement demands. We are  under siege  with cable theft and vandalism. “Criminals  work  with the load-shedding schedule to avoid electrocution or detection. It is only when  load-shedding  ends that customers log calls that power did not come back. It is important for customers to log calls as we may not be aware of it, as our remote system does not cover certain areas.” Mangena said City Power is in  communication with customers when power is not restored and  they escalate the matter as and when it happens. “We encourage our customers to allow 30 minutes  after load-shedding  for restoration. In cases where there is a fault, teams are dispatched urgently to resolve the outage,” he said. Ward 89 councillor Leah Knott said though she partly understood City Power's decision to cut night-shift staff due to safety concerns, she believed the issue could  be resolved by asking for assistance from the police,  community policing forums (CPFs) and metro police. “They must  ask for escorts. I know of cases where CPFs offered assistance and said City Power must inform them of where their technicians are assigned and they will be there to offer protection.” She also said though technicians would not  work on small outages that might  affect a household, street or block, it was a bit of compensation that a skeleton staff was still available to work on large outages that  affect a big area. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.