The Shoprite Group is calling on high-achieving students to apply for its comprehensive bursaries for the 2023 and 2024 academic years. The supermarket  chain said the bursaries are to support students studying or intending to study in any field, including criminology, accounting, information technology, e-commerce and retail business management. “All bursary recipients are offered employment with the group on completion of their studies,”  said Lungile Koti, senior early careers specialist. In the  past financial year the retailer spent  more than R16m on its bursary programme which funded 206 students. “As the largest private sector employer in  South Africa, the group is one of the top graduate employers. In 2022, for the second consecutive year, the retailer was awarded the Gradstar Students’ Choice Award for Retail Employer of Choice, an award voted for by students,” said Shoprite. Applications must be done online. You will  be required to register an account on the Shoprite Careers portal by April 30. Once you have created an account you  must submit clear copies of  compulsory supporting documentation: If  items are missing your application will be disregarded, the group said. Applicants  have to meet the minimum entry criteria before applying; The bursary coverage varies depending on the course of study and institution. Rand value of the bursary will vary according to the course of study and institution, but will cover tuition fees and on-campus accommodation. With a work-back agreement on graduation, bursary holders are guaranteed employment. They will benefit from practical experience and strong career growth prospects at the group, one of the continent’s most technologically advanced retail organisations. Bursary holders also have access to Shoprite’s employee wellness programme, which includes access to medical advice, counselling services, financial coaching and legal advice. Others bursary initiatives include the Cotton Festival bursary programme for students wishing to further their studies at AFDA. Cotton Fest and its long-standing partner, PUMA, fund the bursaries to cover the shortfall of their tuition fees and assist them in graduating. “We are extremely excited to have the privilege to assist young people achieve this huge milestone in their educational journey,” said late Riky Rick's partner Bianca Naidoo. “When we started Cotton Fest, the idea was not just to have a once off concert, but to do so much more for the culture as a whole, and moreover offer support within the community. Now with the additional financial injection from PUMA this year, we were finally able to make the Cotton Fest Creative Programme a reality and action this support.” TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.